+++
date = "2015-11-25T21:43:44-05:00"
title = "Minimalist-aligned, standardized wardrobe"

+++

Like a growing number of people, I have a problem with American-style
consumption of buying a huge volume of cheaply-made things to satisfy momentary
whims. It is clear to me that this practice is not sustainable and it steals
time away from more interesting activities in life. I see all around me people
who are consumed by their conumption: either by spending so much time consuming
or dealing with the long-term effects of their consumption choices.

I don't want to be a victim of the things I own.

Standardizing on clothes allows me to free the time my mind would spend
thinking about what to wear. The goal of my wardrobe is not necessary to reduce
the number of things I own to a bare minimum, but instead to reduce the time
and effort I have to spend on what I wear and consume. 

Clothing is a natural area of standardization for me. I never enjoyed shopping
or picking out what clothes to wear for the day. When I was a kid, my mother
would do the shopping for me, and pick out my outfit as she came into my room
to wake me up for school.

I have chosen to not standardize on cheaply-mde clothing. Quality means
dependability: I know that each article was designed for a specific range of
conditions and will perform well in those scenarios. Owning quality pieces also
means that I have to do less washing, shopping and purchasing. When an article
does wear out, I know exactly what to replace it with. 

On the other hand, the goal of my wardrobe is not to strictly minimize the
number of articles I own. I'm inspired by minimalists, but I can't claim to be
one. For example, running counter to strict minimalism, I want to own
sufficient clothes to not have to worry about laundry for a week-long trip away
from home. On the other hand, I want to make packing for that week-long trip as
simple as possible.

As part of selecting the items that make the cut for inclusion into my life, I
think about how the product was made. Things that are made with a high quality
of workmanship often last longer and the people who make them often have a
better livelihood. These items usually carry a premium price, which sometimes
can be unreasonable for my budget for the item. Still, I'm more than willing to
pay this premium to keep my money in my local economy or to support
craftspeople and thoughtful designers.

One of the things I wished I had when I graduated college was a specific list
of things I needed to reasonably live. I definitely made mistakes in stuff I
purchased and ended up not using. Along those lines, here are some specific
recommendations for stuff in my thoughtful wardrobe.

## Base

### Shirts: Uniqlo Polos

I've worn a bunch of different brands of polo shirts over the last twenty
years, and I'm happiest so far with Uniqlo polos. These are inexpensive and
come in a large variety of colors. (I only own black and pink, the latter only
because my wife would make fun of me for only having one color). They fit me
pretty well. And finally, the color hasn't faded as badly or as quicktly as
other shirts have.

### Socks: DeFeet 

DeFeet make a huge line of great socks, all of which really differentiate
themselves from the big-box bargain brands. I've chosen to standardize on their
Speede (summer/running), Aireator (warm-weather cycling, fall), and Blaze
(winter) models. All DeFeet socks are made in North Carolina and they source
materials from American producers. Their wool socks are so warm and
comfortable, and the wool comes from American sheep. Their non-wool socks are
made from a fabric composed of recycled plastic.

### Pants: Outlier Slim Dungarees

I didn't think I'd like these pants as much as I have. Since getting them, I've
worn them everyday. They look great and can be worn even in upscale places.
They are lightly water resistant, which is great for those unanticipated, brief
showers while on the bike, and they dry quickly.

Outlier is located in my hometown of NYC, produces all of their garments
on-site and is registered as a benefit corporation.

### Underwear: Duluth Buck Naked Boxer Briefs

## Outerwear

After decades of outdoors service of modern textiles, layering for weather has
been made into a science. 

Wool is the best material for sweaters because it retains heat even when wet,
whether moisture contact occurred because of rain or sweat. It dries quickly
and resists odors.

### Sweater: Chrome Merino Cobra

I have this quarter-zip pullover from Chrome and like it a lot. It has proven
to be very durable in a variety of conditions and still looks pretty good. I
like having a zipper to have better temperature regulation. The large zippered
pocket is well-concealed and sometimes useful for a pair of gloves.

### Hardshell jacket: Arc'teryx Theta AR

Pay attention to sizing. Arc'teryx jackets run large, but you also want to have
space under your hardshell for an insulated middle-layer.

### Insulated jacket: Arc'teryx Atom LT

This jacket is awesome. It is super warm, despite being very thin and
lightweight. Just like other insulated jackets, you can't judge it without
wearing it for a bit of time: within five minutes, I'm reliably toasty.

Get the model with the hood. As with the Theta AR, pay attention to getting the
right size: I'm normally a medium in most measurements, but I could use a
small Atom.

### Hats: Specialzed Wool Cap

## Shoes
### Everyday: Shimano SH-CT80
### Sandal  Chaco ZX/1

Brendan Leonard put it best in his essay, "The Best Shoes in Life Are Not
Shoes". Chacos are legendary and have a cult-life following to suit. Outdoors
people swear by them: "Nice Chacos!" my guide on a kayaking tour in St. Thomas
yelled over to me, and we were immediately bonded by out choice of sandal.

My wife hates that I love them. I'm the first to admit that they aren't
fashionable. But, they are so comfortable and durable that I've stopped caring
about what other people think. I have, on occasion, but more and more
frequently, even worn socks with my Chacos.

All Chacos used to be made in the USA, but they fairly moved most production
abroad due to price pressure. All of their custom orders are still made in
Michigan.

Definitely avoid the model with the big toe loop; the extra support isn't
needed.

### Off-bike: Tom's Paseos

## Still looking:

### Gloves Specialized 
### Shorts
### Base layer - Cedar Cycling wool t-shirt  Novara long-sleeve propylene long-sleved shirt
### Shoes. Danner? Vasque? New Balance?

