--- 
title: "dublin recommendations"
draft: true
date: "2015-07-29"
---

One of the great perks of working at Google is that travel is highly promoted,
but a specific deliverable is not required. Engineers are strongly encouraged
to travel to whereever they can forge and improve relationships.  Half of my
team is located in Dublin, Ireland, so I end up going there routinely.

Google is located down in --------, so I mostly stay around that area.
Therefore, my report is mostly geared toward other Googlers making a trip. I'd
hope that, if you're visiting for tourism, that you'd explore more widely.

A thought about Dublin in general. To me, Dublin is a relatively small,
non-metropolitan city with not a whole lot going on. Many of the pubs are
identical and many of the restaurants are downright bad (for this New Yorker's
standards, anyway)

# Hotels

I've stayed at the two right across the street from the offices and would
recommend them both.

## Schoolhouse Hotel

I make an attempt to stay at the Schoolhouse if possible. They sometimes have
limited availability, usually because of some event in O2 stadium down the
road. The Schoolhouse is a small, quaint hotel located in an old schoolhouse. A
modernist hotel this is not. Each room is themed with an Irish literary figure.
The rooms are fairly spacious and charming. The bathrooms are small and
traditional, with interesting wood paneling and wallpaper fit for a B&B outside
of town. There is free WiFi, but be aware that some rooms don't have great WiFi
reception.

The staff are excellent and friendly. Because you need to interact with them
daily to store and fetch your room key, they get to know you and can create a
good rapport. 

Embedded within the hotel are two restaurants: one that serves a typical
sit-down meal and a pub. I've only ever had the breakfast service at the
legitimate restaruant once, which was delightful in all the ways that hotel
pre-fixe breakfasts are, except in the expense. Eat there if you need to before
your flight, but skip it otherwise.

The pub, on the otherhand, is worth visiting and can become your homebase and
default watering hole. They serve a relatively large menu extending beyond mere
barfood into proper dinner dishes. While my go-to item is the burger with
guacamole, which is surprisingly well prepared for Irish beef, everything else
I've had has been at least good if not better. The bartenders are friendly, but
service can be a bit slow, requiring you to flag down someone for some attention.

## Grand Canal Hotel

My second choice, owning entirely to proximity to the Google office, is the
Grand Canal Hotel, a business-oriented hotel. It definitely lacks the charm of
the Schoolhouse: the rooms are identical and sparse, there are no personal
touches, and interaction with staff is minimal (you use your magnetic stripe
key to activate the elevator, for example). The room is fine and unremarkable;
at least it has been very clean in my experience.

There is an attached pub, open til late, but it is much larger and more
impersonal than the Schoolhouse Pub. The beer selection is slightly better, but
the menu is more typical of a pub.

I've never had a problem making a reservation here on short order, or extending
my stay by a day later on.

# Restaurants

If you're a Googler, it is entirely possible to not need to eat anywhere else.
Google serves breakfast and lunch five days a week, and dinner four days a
week. I'd be totally amenable to that, but I like to get out of the office at
nights to experience some of the local cuisine.

Food in Dublin is relatively unrefined. There are a number of restaurants that
seems to not really understand food or dining. However, it seems that good food
and fine dining is on the uptick in recent years, though most of those
restaurants are geared toward visiting tourists and not locals.

## Patrick Guilbaud

## L'Ecrivain

## Schoolhouse Pub

## Chophouse

## Ely's

## 3FE

## Junior Paulie's Pizza

## The Bath Pub

## herbstreet

## The Brew Dock

## Porterhouse Temple Bar

## L. Mulligan Grocer

## Rustic Stone

## The Pigs Ear

# Other places to visit

## County Cork

## Howth

## Wicklow Mountains National Park

## Kilkenny

# Air travel and the Dublin Airport

I usually take the one direct flight available on Delta between JFK and DUB
(DL91 and DL92). This is mostly because it was pretty easy to be upgraded to
business class, but Delta recently eliminated this perk for trans-Atlantic
flights. Still, I do like Delta's international economy program: the food is
not outlandishly terrible and there is plenty of red wine. I might rethink my
airline selection strategy on my next trip.

The airport is better than most US airports: it is small, clean, and spartan.
As usual with airports timing is everything: avoid spending excess time after
security.

## Getting to and from the airport

Cabs are expensive and will cost around 40 euros. I usually will take the
Aircoach instead: the busses on Route 702 stops across the street from the
Schoolhouse Hotel every hour, takes 30 minutes when there is no traffic, and
only costs 8.50 euros one-way (bring exact change, if possible).  Beware,
though, when travelling toward the airport: there is a sign for the Aircoach
stop right outside the Schoolhouse Hotel, but the bus actually stops across the
street and down a bit. Arrive a few minutes early to make sure you don't miss
it.

## Pre-security: Grand Oak Bar

There are a few restaurants on the pre-security mezzanine level of the Terminal
2, the international hall, but the Grand Oak Bar is the only one worth going
to. The coffee is claimed to be award-winning, but I claim it is merely "above
average", making it an excellent airport choice. They have an 11 euro full
Irish breakfast that will make your heart stop (four different kinds of meat
plus eggs plus toast!) but is delicious if you arrive at some ungodly hour in
the morning, especially if you are hungover from drinking on the plane or in
Dublin. The pastries are good.

## Post-security: The Loop

The Loop is the shopping arcade between the initial security checkpoint and US
Preclearance. It is essentially the last place to spend money on things you and
your loved ones don't need. It has pretty typical airport-type shops:
souvenirs, chocolates, duty-free, etc. There are a few food options here, like
a pre-packaged deli and a full bar (though you'll likely be traveling back to
the US in the morning) with some hot food items.

## US Preclearance

Run, do not walk, to get Global Entry. This only allows you to avoid one of the
two lines; you still need to pass your belongings through an x-ray machine (but
there are no metal detectors or body scanners).

## US Departure Hall

Because of recent renovations, it is no longer a hell hole, but neither is it a
desirable place to hangout. There is one legitmate food stand with decent
coffee and pastries, and passable prepackaged food. There are two other
unremarkable cafes and one small duty-free shop, all of which should be
avoided.
