---
title: "Chicago Marathon 2023"
date: 2024-01-02
---

I ran the Chicago Marathon on October 8, 2023. These are my notes on race
preparation and execution (as usual, mostly written to remind myself about the
experience in decades to come).

## Result

2:48:42 (6:26/mi, 4:00/km), 1,184 / 48,292 overall, 1,093 / 25,672 males, 200 /
??? AG males 35 to 39

{{<figure src="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/finish_small.jpg" link="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/finish.jpg" alt="Me at the finish line with my medal and beer.">}}

## Goals

✓ Goal A: Sub-2:55

✓ Goal B: Sub-2:58:41 (to set a new PR)

## Training

Right after the NYC Marathon in 2022, probably while lying in bed with COVID, I
learned that the guaranteed entry qualifying time for the Chicago Marathon is
3:10 for my age group. With my 2:59:59 race from the spring as well as my
disappointing results in NYC in mind, plus not knowing what my Boston race
result would be, I panic-applied to the Chicago Marathon.

Boston went really well (and I’m still amazed and delighted by my experience),
but I knew from the low severity of soreness in walking back to my hotel room
that I left some time out there on the course. Recovery was pretty easy; I took
a few days off, but then picked it up to at least get some mileage in before
the BolderBoulder 10k in a little over a month from then. That said, by the
time BolderBoulder rolled around, I still felt a little fatigue in my legs; I
probably should have taken some more time off. That race didn’t go as planned
and I jogged it in for a 42 minute result.

I took three weeks to just have fun with running and to take more days off than
usual. I had fun running on a family vacation in Aspen at 8,000 ft (2,438m).
Then training really began.

Since I enjoyed and had a good result from the [McMillan Boston-specific
program](https://www.mcmillanrunning.com/boston-marathon-training-series/), I
decided to use [his Chicago-specific
program](https://site.finalsurge.com/TrainingPlans/McMillanPlanList?goal=CHICAGOMARATHON&distance=&timesec=&goaldistance=&goaltimesec=)
for this cycle. From mid-June through October, I stuck pretty closely to the
prescribed plan. I hit my paces for workouts and got to the desired mileage. I
tried to keep up with some faster runners in my club during long runs, which
was mostly successful. The main interruption was a week of travel; to Maine,
where I enjoyed my 16 mile (26 km) run down back roads in Augusta, Maine, with
very courteous drivers, and to New Jersey, which I continue to dislike.

I ran a [local half marathon](https://www.coloradorunnerevents.com/laborday/)
as a tune-up race and PR’ed by 20 seconds at 1:27 high, but the notable
difference was that this race was at altitude. The [VDOT
calculator](https://vdoto2.com/calculator/) converts this to a 1:24 sea-level
half and a 2:56:30 sea-level marathon, so this gave me a confidence boost that
my goals were within reach. The next week, I set an unofficial PR in the
company 5k during an absolute downpour, which has now made me want to see what
I can do in good weather.

{{<figure src="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/labor_day_half_finish_small.jpg" link="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/labor_day_half_finish.jpg" alt="Me and Tanvir after the Labor Day Half Marathon in Parker, CO.">}}

My last big long run was fast and smooth. I went into the taper weeks feeling
good. I had a niggle of knee pain, but heat therapy worked wonders and it felt
better when I was running.

{{<figure src="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/early_run_small.jpg" link="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/early_run.jpg" caption="Life did intervene and required early runs, sometimes.">}}

By the end of the taper, I distinctly missed the 20+ mile runs of earlier
weeks.

## Race Weekend

I flew into Chicago late Friday evening for the race on Sunday. The last time I
was in New York City, Yuko and I went to a sushi restaurant created by the
[two-Michelin-starred](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michelin_Guide#Stars),
Chicago-based [Moody Tongue](https://www.moodytongue.com/) and had a great time
with an excellent omakase and even better beer pairings. I knew I’d want to
bring some of their beer home, so I brought [inflatable bottle
protectors](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B08S71QLLM/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_search_asin_title?ie=UTF8&psc=1)
and an empty suitcase. I have now determined that my suitcase can fit, with
protection, exactly 14 bottles of beer.

{{<figure src="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/suitcase_small.jpg" link="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/suitcase.jpg" alt="A suitcase full of carefully packed beer.">}}

I checked into my hotel, popped some melatonin, and tried to get to sleep.

There’s a saying in running that the sleep the night before a race doesn’t
matter, but the prior night’s sleep does. Well, I slept exceedingly poorly and
I knew this could be bad, since I don’t ever sleep well the _night before_ the
race.

My training partner, Tanvir, and I went to the Tracksmith shakeout run, which
felt pretty good, and then immediately headed to the expo to pick up our bibs.
This was a key move. By the time we got there at 9:30am, it was already crowded
with long lines; I definitely wouldn’t recommend getting there any later. (We
later learned that the location of the expo, the McCormick Center, was the site
of a [migratory bird massacre that
weekend](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/08/us/birds-dead-chicago-building.html)).

{{<figure src="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/tracksmith_instagram_small.jpg" link="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/tracksmith_instagram.jpg" caption="We were featured on Tracksmith's Instagram profile (far right).">}}

I got back to my hotel, futilely tried to take a nap, and went to a tourist
trap for a pancake lunch. (I had wanted to enjoy the weather by eating in Grant
Park, but I was swiftly attacked by yellow jackets, which apparently were also
[a factor for the post-race
festivities](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChicagoMarathon/comments/174lqle/bees_at_27th_mile_postrace_party/)).
I relaxed in bed, got some pasta delivered, and layed out my clothes for the
race.

## Pre-Race

After another mostly sleepless night, I got out of bed, got kitted up, and went
downstairs for an early breakfast that the front desk staff said would be
awaiting marathon runners. I had envisioned a full continental breakfast spread
like [at the W in Boston last
year.](https://ericgar.com/2023/05/29/boston-marathon-2023/) What it actually
turned out to be was a brown bag that contained a bad bagel, a small tub of
peanut butter, and a banana, and the offer of coffee for $12.

The race documentation says to get to one’s designated entry gate at exactly
the time the gates open, 5:30am, which would mean two hours standing in the
cold. I opted to arrive around 6:15am, which was plenty of time, especially
since I wasn’t checking a bag. I sat around in my [trash
bag](https://www.homedepot.com/p/Husky-42-Gal-Contractor-Bags-50-Count-HK42WC050B/202973825)
for a while, got in line for the portapotty but ultimately peed against a fence
  because the line was far too long. It was so crowded that I didn’t get a
  warm-up in; I decided to not run in circles in our corral, mostly because it
  seemed too much like a mosh pit.

Unlike New York, there is no cannon being repeatedly fired and keeping the
awaiting runners on edge and periodically infusing adrenaline. But, for this
‘90s Chicago Bulls fan, [“Sirius” by the Alan Parson’s
Project](https://youtu.be/Ka4H2JYyQJU?si=IKEefHnK52bHwfCO&t=30) hit the spot to
hype me up for this Chicago race.

## Race

The plan I came up with was to take advantage of the flat course and hold
steady at 6:40/mi pace with little deviation.

The start was a bit congested, but I got up to between 6:20/mi and 6:30/mi
pretty quickly and was able to hold it. It was a little dangerous because,
somehow, there was occasionally a participant that I had to pass who was
practically walking in the middle of the race course. I have no idea how they
got so far ahead of me, only to come to a standstill and become a course
hazard.

But I felt good. I decided just to roll with my 6:20-6:30/mi pace as long as I
could. It was feeling almost effortless and there were no consequences of me
flaming out before the finish line. With my unexpected freshness at the end of
Boston in mind, I knew I wanted to finish here without much left in the tank,
so I YOLO’ed it.

While there were no official pacers for finishing times below three hours, I
actively tried to find groups going my desired pace. I found a bunch of packs
that met the criteria, only for them to slow down. I ended up bridging from
group to group, at my desired pace, with an unexpected benefit: it felt
psychologically nice passing by so many people for so much of the race. I can’t
think of a race I’ve ever run where this happened.

I passed running YouTuber [Matt
Choi](https://youtu.be/rz7mkBXo8jc?si=8b9vrLniM3nR5N8T&t=226) and said hi. I
passed Thomas Eller, the first born-deaf six star finisher ever and [the focus
of a recent short
documentary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pfAIwzxPAH0&t=39s), on his way to
his fifth of six major marathon finishes _this year._

But overall, I was very focused on trying to maintain pace, so much so that I
noticed the crowds and the environment so much less compared to my prior
marathons. I didn’t give any high fives, I did not yell to rile up the crowd,
and I did not receive any power-ups. Someone later mentioned how excited they
were to have passed the Bull’s stadium and how they enjoyed the different
atmospheres of the neighborhoods… I really didn’t know what they were talking
about. This was good and bad; though one day, I’d love to run a marathon and
really soak in the event.

[Mount Roosevelt](https://www.instagram.com/p/CcTh4xhPfS3/?hl=en), an overpass
over the train tracks at about 800 meters from the finish, and practically the
_only_ elevation on the entire course, was surprisingly impactful. I dropped
down to a low of 7:22/mi before the crest of the “hill” and then kicked hard
around the turn toward the finish.

I crossed the line and I knew I bagged a massive PR without much left to give.

## Post-race

I took my medal, my mylar thermal blanket and my [Goose Island 312 Wheat Ale
recovery beer ](https://twitter.com/ChiMarathon/status/1702781561806930071)and
waddled toward the exit. I’m really happy that I didn’t check a bag; the line
was already pretty long and I heard it got even worse. I saw a woman let out a
series of blood curdling screams after having her legs completely cramp and
seize up. There are a _whole bunch_ of stairs between the finishing area and
the park exits, which were unappreciated.

I met up with Tanvir over at the Tracksmith pop-up store where they were
selling a [“heirloom, custom-embroidered
hoodie”](https://www.tracksmith.com/events/chicago-2023-heirloom-hoodie-and-chain-stitching)
which sounded nice, but not $280 nice. I took my free poster personalized with
my finishing time back to my hotel and took a long hot shower.

Tanvir’s and my requirement for a post-race meal _in Chicago_ was pretty
obvious: [deep-dish pizza](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago-style_pizza).
But we also didn’t want to get stuck in a tourist trap. Tanvir did some
sleuthing and expertly made a reservation at
[Pequod’s](https://pequodspizza.com/), which I highly recommend. While I still
favor New York-style pizza, Pequod’s really hit the post-marathon,
calorie-deficient spot, with an cozy, authentic atmosphere that felt like a
neighborhood pizza joint should. I’d go back for sure, even not after running
26.2 miles.

Then _I_ applied my research and brought us to [Pilot Project
Brewing](https://www.pilotprojectbrewing.com/), which incubates small batch
brewers in their space and sells the beers up front. I had one (okay, I had
three of them) of the best beers I’ve ever had in my life: [Lassi by Azadi
Brewing](https://www.instagram.com/pilotprojectbrewing/p/CwipmbFOuU0/), an
alphonso mango milkshake IPA. It was creamy and sweet and sharp; it tasted
almost exactly like someone poured a
[lassi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lassi) into my beer.

{{<figure src="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/pilot_project_small.jpg" link="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/pilot_project.jpg" alt="A sampler of beers from Pilot Project.">}}

My friends parted ways one to catch a flight and another to (finally) take a
shower, but I was still up for more beer and fun. I went down the street to
[Rev Brewing’s brewpub](https://revbrew.com/visit/brewpub) for a [Ryeway to
Heaven](https://revbrew.com/beer/deep-wood-series/ryeway-to-heaven) (a
delicious 15% ABV barrel-aged ryewine) and then to Emporium Arcade Bar for a
lovely [God Damn Pigeon
Porter](http://www.spitefulbrewing.com/gd-pigeon-porter) from local Spiteful
Brewing while playing some pinball.

I headed home the next day. I popped open a gift earmarked for celebrating
after a successful run.

{{<figure src="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/celebratory_beer_small.jpg" link="/images/post/chicago-marathon-2023/celebratory_beer.jpg" alt="A celebratory beer.">}}

Next up: Boston ([again](https://ericgar.com/2023/05/29/boston-marathon-2023/))!
