---
date:  "2016-09-08T00:26:52Z"
title: "Trip Report: Boulder, Colorado"
taxonomies:
  tag: travel
---

After [my great experience after GopherCon last
year](https://ericgar.com/2015/07/19/denver-trip-report/), I wanted to
show Yuko around Boulder a bit. Benny was going back to GopherCon, so the
two couples scheduled an extended weekend for sightseeing.

{{< figure src="/images/post/boulder-trip-report/rmnp.jpg" link="/images/post/boulder-trip-report/rmnp_original.jpg" caption="Emerald Lake, Rocky Mountain National Park.">}}

## Day 1

Yuko and I were meeting some friends at the airport who took a later flight, so
we spent some time in Denver.

**[City O’ City](http://www.cityocitydenver.com/)**: A great vegetarian/vegan
place. The menu is huge and the food is great. I had an El Jefe bean burger
that did not disappoint.

**[Union Square Train Station](http://unionstationindenver.com/)**: It’s
actually worth a walk around the train station if you’re in the area. The
renovated, reinvigorated space reminds us of how travel used to be, and could
still be, given a little better planning. The ice cream at [Milkbox Ice
Creamery](http://www.milkboxicecream.com/) looked and smelled great, but we did
not partake, and I’m a fan of [The
Kitchen](http://thekitchen.com/the-kitchen-denver/) line of restaurants, which
has its [Next Door](http://thekitchen.com/next-door-union-station/) outpost
here.

**[Wynkoop Brewing](http://www.wynkoop.com/)**: It was hot and very sunny by
the time we exited the train station, so our next move was motivated by air
conditioning and beer. Wynkoop Brewing is across the street from the train
station and serves up some good craft beer.

**[Tattered Cover Bookstore](http://www.tatteredcover.com/)**: A short hop from
the brewery (...see the pattern?), this bookstore is one of the largest
independent bookstores left in the U.S. 

**[Jagged Mountain Craft Brewery](http://www.jaggedmountainbrewery.com/)**:
More good craft beer. The Cattywampus and the Sawach IPAs are definitely worth
having, though their tap list rotates. They had a beer-infused creamsicle
which, while not super beer-y, was still delicious.

**[The Kitchen Denver](http://thekitchen.com/the-kitchen-denver/)**: This is my
second time here in two trips. The food and service are lovely. We had a quick
meal at the bar.

**[Voodoo Doughnuts](http://voodoodoughnut.com/)**: An iconic Portland doughnut
shop, the selection is odd-ball and they’re famous for their maple bacon donut.
I liked The Loop, which is encrusted with Fruit Loops. Pro tip: when meeting
friends at the airport, it’s not a terrible idea to buy a few extra to share.

## Day 2

After our complete and healthy breakfast of leftover Voodoo Doughnuts, our plan
was to get a packed lunch from a market, head to Rocky Mountain National Park
(RNMP) to do a hike, and then hit up a brewery.
[RockyMountainHikingTrails.com](http://www.rockymountainhikingtrails.com/) was
a great resource in figuring out which hikes to take.

**[St. Vrain Market](http://stvrainmarket.com/)**: I think we chose a place to
get a packed lunch from correctly. St. Vrain is a well-stocked little market
right on the way to RMNP with some good sandwich selections and homemade bread.
They have a $9 special for a sandwich, chips or apple, and a cookie, packed in
a bag.

{{< figure src="/images/post/boulder-trip-report/emerald_lake.jpg" link="/images/post/boulder-trip-report/emerald_lake_original.jpg" caption="Along the hike to Emerald Lake, Rocky Mountain National Park.">}}

**[Emerald Lake
Hike](http://www.rockymountainhikingtrails.com/emerald-lake.htm)**: We hiked to
Emerald Lake, which passes two other small lakes and is connected to the every
popular Bear Lake. The ~3.5 mile round trip hike to Emerald Lake is well
trodden, not difficult, but gorgeous. If 3.5 miles is too much, Bear Lake is
very pretty on its own, and it has a short, 0.5 mile trail around it. Get here
early as the parking lot fills up fast. We got there around 10am which was far
too late. (But, our visit had a happy ending: a park ranger directing traffic
had pity for our tiny little Prius, so she instantly made another parking spot
by moving a sign. Thank you for making our day!)

**[Old Fall River
Road](https://www.nps.gov/romo/planyourvisit/old_fall_river_road.htm)**:
Definitely drive up this scenic, long, one-way, gravel road. Pull off to take
pictures and throw a snowball or two. The only designated attraction on the
road is Chasm Falls, which is a pretty waterfall with a short-but-steep path
leading to a good vantage point. There are lots of other opportunities to stop
and enjoy the scenery along the road. The marmots are plentiful and super-cute.

**[Alpine Visitor
Center](https://www.nps.gov/romo/alpine_visitor_center.htm)**: The road ends at
the Alpine Visitor Center, which is worth getting out and walking around. There
is a short path from the visitor center to the nearby summit, which has great
views and often has herds of elk chilling out on the tundra. The drive down
from the visitor center is also beautiful and provides many opportunities to
stop at scenic overlooks.

**[Avery Brewing](https://www.averybrewing.com/)**: This is my second visit in
two trips to this brewery and I really like it. The beer is phenomenal, the
food is good, and the outdoor patio is host to so many cute dogs. The Chai
High, the Tweak, and the Dionisian Series at the time were my favorite. Get
anything aligned with your beer interest that is a “Tap Room Rarity” and stay
for a while.

## Day 3

Our plan for this day was to get breakfast, go for another hike, visit the
cute, hippy mountain town of Nederland, and then visit some more breweries.
But, We decided to cut down on the driving time by not going back to RMNP,
which I actually regretted. The hike we ended up on was nice, but I loved the
mountain environment and the dense, cool alpine air. It was fortunate that we
chose to visit Nederland when we did, as the next day, [a very large
wildfire](http://www.thedenverchannel.com/news/local-news/cold-springs-fire-near-nederland-burns-600-acres-2-arrested)
consumed some of the area we drove through.

**[Santiago’s](http://eatatsantiagos.com/)**: Benny and I visited a Denver
outpost during our last trip and had delicious breakfast burritos. An order of
two “Half & Half” burritos, each of which are not huge, is the thing to get and
is sufficient for me, though three could have been great. Unlike in Denver,
there is no seating here, so we brought

**[1st/2nd Flatiron Hike in Chautauqua
Park](http://www.alltrails.com/trail/us/colorado/chautauqua-park-first-flatiron-trail)**:
This is the signature hike that starts right in town, up to near the summit of
the iconic Flatirons that are emblematic of Boulder. The main trail consists of
many switchbacks (shortcuts exist, but have caused severe erosion) and one
scramble. The views of town on one side and of the rest of the Front Range are
nice, but I think the scenery in RMNP is better.

**[Sundance Cafe](http://www.sundancecafenederland.com/)**: After our hike, we
got into the car and headed to Nederland, which has been described as a hippy
mountain commune. They serve good diner-style food in large portions, plus some
local craft beer, which is a perfect combination after a couple of hours of
hiking. The view from their porch was very nice, but we opted to sit inside out
of the sun.

**[Blue Owl Books](http://www.blueowlbooks.com/read-me/)**: The bookstore is
nice, but the homemade ice cream is better. Ask for suggestions and taste a few
flavors before making a decision. Sit outside on the benches and revel in the
beautiful weather. When we went, the server was a young man who had just
graduated high school and was on his way to NYU, starting yesterday (at the
time of writing); I hope all is well with him in his newfound city!

**[Harvest House](https://www.leafly.com/dispensary-info/harvest-house)**: I’d
never been to a dispensary before (and had never consumed any Schedule 1
narcotics!), but we figured we’d see what it was like. This was a very
pleasant, professional establishment with a very attendant, knowledgeable
salesperson. This was all validated by the customer ahead of us, who
exemplified exactly the friendly stoner stereotype. If this is a good example
of the kinds of business created by the “[green
rush](http://www.forbes.com/sites/curtissilver/2016/06/02/marijuanas-40-billion-dollar-green-rush/)”,
then the world will be a happier place.

**[Happy Trails Cafe](http://www.happytrailscafe.com/)**: Good coffee, good
service, cute interior. ‘Nuff said.

**Drive back to Boulder via Peak to Peak and Ward**: I chose to drive us back a
different way back to show my companions the views and houses scattered over
the mountains behind Boulder. We drove on the famous [Peak to Peak
Highway](http://estes-park.com/peak-peak-scenic-byway), through Ward, down
Lefthand and Lee Hill, and back to town. This is recommended. However, Google
Maps may route you incorrectly into Ward: we traversed some roads that really
are meant for a 4WD vehicle and turned some heads of locals with our tiny
Prius.

**[University Cycles](http://ubikes.com/)**: I was very happy with [my
encounter with University Cycles on my last
trip](https://ericgar.com/2015/07/19/denver-trip-report/), and my second
encounter validated my feelings. Benny and I were well attended and well
supplied for the next day’s ride. I’ll continue to visit University whenever
I’m in town. 

**[FATE Brewing](http://fatebrewingcompany.com/)**: FATE has a large menu of
both beer and food, and has ample outdoor seating, so we went for dinner. It
was nice, but it was so large that I felt it was impersonal and industrial.

**[Upslope Brewing](http://upslopebrewing.com/)**: The night was young, so we
hit up Upslope to visit another local brewery. The selection of beer I had was
okay, and they were distinctly not busy. We played a boardgame from their ample
supply.

## Day 4

The plan for the day was for me and Benny to get up early for a bike ride in
the hills and to meet up with our wives after.

{{< figure src="/images/post/boulder-trip-report/flagstaff.jpg" link="/images/post/boulder-trip-report/flagstaff_original.jpg" caption="Near the end of a hot ride at Sunrise Ampitheater, near the Flagstaff summit.">}}

**[The Cup Espresso](http://www.thecupboulder.com/)**: Open early, we got a
bagel breakfast sandwich and an espresso before heading out, just as I did last
year.

**[Cycling: Gold Hill and
Flagstaff](https://www.strava.com/activities/637919084)**: Not wanting to
abandon our wives for an entire day, we rode one of the same short routes as I
did last year. This time, I hadn’t been riding my bike leading up to this trip
and I was significantly more out of shape. Still, this is a great route; see
[my description from last
year](https://ericgar.com/2015/07/19/denver-trip-report/). Reaching the town of
Gold Hill, we were dismayed to see the [namesake general
store](http://www.goldhillgeneralstore.com/) closed, which was our planned
mid-ride refueling stop. We instead picked up some water at Chautauqua Park
before heading up Flagstaff.

**[Lolita’s
Deli](https://www.boulderdowntown.com/go/lolitas-market-and-deli)**: Upon
returning our bikes to University after our ride, we asked the staff for a good
nearby place to have a quick lunch. This hit the spot: a ginormous sandwich
with chips and a pickle, and all of the liquids one could want.

**[West Flanders Brewing](http://wfbrews.com/)**: We met up with our wives at
this centrally-located brewery. I went here last year and it again is worth
visiting for a pint if you have the time while on Pearl.

**[Walking around Pearl
Street](https://www.boulderdowntown.com/visit/history-of-pearl-street)**: We
browsed in a bunch of stores and watched some of the street performers. The
locals have been complaining that Pearl Street has gotten too focused on large
brands and I can see why. Still, it’s a very nice pedestrian mall that really
sets the bar for urban planning.

**[Frasca Food & Wine](http://www.frascafoodandwine.com/)**: We had made a late
reservation for the best restaurant in town. It reminded us of fancy
restaurants in New York. The food was good, but I’m jaded by home. The service
was too overbearing at times; sometimes we just wanted to be left alone and we
really didn’t need the menu read to us. Still, I recommend going if you have
the funds and you particularly like fine Italian cuisine paired with a really
good wine list.

## Day 5

We had an early flight back to New York. Reflecting on our trip, Yuko and I
both agreed that we could live in Boulder, though the lack of diversity and
Asian markets were significant downsides.

**[Zeal](http://zealfood.com/)**: We had a very quick breakfast here before
departing for the airport. The service was good and the food was fine. For the
same reason I don’t go to church, I’m suspect of any place that heavily
advertises an ideology of $180 3-day juice cleanses being good for your health,
though.

{{< figure src="/images/post/boulder-trip-report/alpine.jpg" link="/images/post/boulder-trip-report/alpine_original.jpg" caption="A view from the summit near Alpine Visitor Center.">}}
