---
date:  "2023-10-14T00:26:52Z"
title: "Coffee in the Denver Metro Area"
taxonomies:
  tag: travel
---
(...and outside of Boulder. Many of these places have multiple locations; the one we went to is noted. Additional recommendations would be welcomed!)

**[Atlas Coffee](https://www.atlascoffees.com/)** (Littleton): Cute,
industrial-yet-homey, large space often with a guitarist/singer. Large latte
menu; I liked the one with honey and cayenne pepper. Their breakfast burritos
looked and smelled good, but alas, I did not partake. Highly recommended.

**[Lost Coffee](https://www.lostcoffee.com/)** (Littleton): Fantastically
crafted micro-batch roastery and cafe in what appears to be a repurposed car
repair facility. Good amount of outdoor seating. I should have gotten the
overnight oats. Highly recommended. (At the time of writing, a new brewery, the
[Littleton Brewing Company](https://www.littletonbrewco.com/), is building a
large taphouse across the street).

**[BREW Due South](https://www.littletonbrewco.com/)** (Lafayette): Really
fantastic coffee in a shop, attached to a kitschy gift and clothing store, and
with lots of varied seating in two rooms. The apple hand pie I had was
phenomenal, as was the cappuccino, but I think Yukoâ€™s flavored cold brew was
out of this world. Highly recommended.

**[Sapor Coffee & Concepts](https://www.saporcoffee.com/)** (Denver): A really
neat coffee shop offering unique concoctions. The brewhouse itself is
industrial-chic with a light Star Wars theme. We enjoyed sitting at the counter
on the high stools and watching the baristas work. The owners were really nice
to us and gave my daughter a purple lightsaber sticker, which made her day, and
offered us a free drink once they restocked with ingredients to make the drink
my wife asked for first. A great place to stop before an early Meow Wolf
experience. Highly recommended. 

**[Sweet Bloom Coffee Roasters](https://sweetbloomcoffee.com/)** (Westminster):
Well-designed cafe with very tasty beans and meticulously made coffee. Highly
recommended, especially if on the way to the nearby H Mart.

**[2914 Coffee](https://2914coffee.com/)** (Denver): Very good neighborhood
coffee shop right off of I-25. I enjoyed sitting at the counter next to the
window. Recommended.

