---
date: "2015-07-19"
title: "Trip Report: Denver and Boulder, Colorado"
tag: travel
---

I had the fine fortune of attending [Gophercon
2015](http://www.gophercon.com/), a conference to celebrate my current favorite
programming language, in Denver and extending my trip to check out nearby
Boulder for the weekend.

{{< figure src="/images/post/denver-trip-report/canyoncroad_lo.jpg" link="/images/post/denver-trip-report/canyoncroad.jpg" caption="Lefthand Canyon Drive">}}

I’ve wanted to visit Boulder ever since I visited Portland several years ago.
Boulder, Portland, and Austin are always compared against each other, and I
fell in love with Portland when I was there. They have a strong cycling scene,
a great brewery scene, and an equally great coffee scene, not to mention a
weird culture that produces new and interesting things. My favorite t-shirt
said, “Portland - Where young people go to retire.”

But the Pacific Northwest weather put me off. I managed to visit Portland twice
during their annual week of beautiful sunshine, but the rain and dreariness of
the region is [well-known](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JEBCS006HvA).

Boulder also hits the trifecta: good coffee, great beer, and *even
greater* cycling. But it also has much better weather than New York and
even Portland: there are 300 sunny days a year here, the summers aren’t humid,
and the snow rarely piles up. Sign me up.

Did I mention the cycling? Boulder is nestled right against the Rocky
Mountains, which makes for some phenomenal climbs and vistas. The possibilities
for interesting rides are endless and the climate in the mountains is
consistently cool. I only got to explore a subset of the roads around here,
and from what I hear, the mountain biking and hiking trails are even better.
Cycling within the city is *excellent*, with wide bike lanes and very
courteous, slow-moving, sparse traffic. There are dedicated multiple-use paths,
and even the Fourmile Canyon climb can be accomplished even by an amateur.

Boulder has a long pedestrian mall lined with mostly unique but also some chain
shops and eateries. It reminded me of Charlottesville, VA. The street buskers
were very diverse, from a chorus of xylophones to flame jugglers, and worth
watching. The town is very sleepy: there are very few people out early, and the
streets are almost void of moving cars then. (Maybe they’re all out in the
hills getting an early ride in).

Let’s talk about friendliness. This is my first time in the midwest, and man
was I blown away by everyone’s friendliness. It’s tough finding locals, since
everyone is a transplant, but both camps were always super friendly and were
willing to talk about their lives and background and hand out recommendations.
This is in such contrast to New Yorkers...

I like this place so much that I could see myself living here. The advantages
over New York are clear, we’d just have to figure out employment and housing.

To provide a balanced report, I present some complaints. First, most breweries
here have not embraced the brewpub concept; they rely on food trucks for
accompaniments to their beer. Also, the mosquitos can be crazy after sunset,
and there are biting flies in the hills that would not stop following me.

I have a lot more pictures of
[Boulder](https://goo.gl/photos/XArGkfNutG2g4f177) and
[Golden](https://goo.gl/photos/W4e3sN5RksoNmhLT7).

Here’s a list and short description of some of the places I went, in no
particular order.

# Denver Eats

**[The Kitchen](http://thekitchen.com/)** - I ate here with Benny
and one of his colleagues. This farm-to-table restaurant group has a small
number of outposts in Colorado and Chicago. The
food was well thought-out and very fresh. I’d definitely recommend going back
to any of their locations.

**[Rioja](http://www.riojadenver.com/)** - I was super-happy that
Dave mentioned his friends were going here, but I couldn’t join them that
night. The chef is a 2013 James Beard Award winner. I dined here alone and
really enjoyed myself: I had the best citrus salad I’ve ever had (with avocado,
which I would never think to pair with citrus!) and the “vegetable foursquare”,
a medley of four separate vegetable dishes, was on point. The wine list was
excellent. *_Go at all costs_*, and order a good bottle of wine.

**[Lowdown Brewery](http://www.lowdownbrewery.com/)** - I had some time to kill
before a conference meetup, and this was the closest brewery. Comparably
unremarkable, but the Dirty Shame strong ale was good.

**[Santiago’s Mexican Restaurant](http://eatatsantiagos.com/)** - Benny and I
stopped here for some breakfast burritos at the start of our Lookout Hill ride.
I really liked their breakfast burritos, ordered in medium spiciness
(colloquially referred to as a half & half): they were small enough that two
(or three!) is a good order. The coffee comes in buckets, and a small coffee is
enough for a couple of days of caffeine high. Benny may advise to avoid these
burritos before a bike ride, but they definitely propelled me for over 50
miles.

**[Denver Beer Company](http://denverbeerco.com/)** - I went here straight from
checking into my hotel, and took advantage of their wifi. Have the Tandem
Double and their extremely popular Graham Cracker Porter. Do as I did: sit at
the right hand side of the bar to allow the soft pretzel smell to waft over,
and then order one with mustard.

**[Breckenridge Colorado
Craft](http://www.breckbrew.com/food/breckenridge-colorado-craft)** - Don’t
bother coming here unless you need to be near the baseball field for some
reason. At some point, this was a Breckenridge Brewery outpost, but now it is
just a generic beer bar. The staff was super-friendly and entertaining, though.

**[Black Shirt Brewing](http://www.blackshirtbrewingco.com/)** - *_Come here at
all costs_*. I would invest in this brewery if I could: all of their beers were
amazing and they could become huge. The brewery centers around red ales, but
distinctly not of the Flemish variety: the brews they make use the same yeast
structure to produce really interesting, complex beers that they describe with
the standard monikers of IPAs and Stouts. If you come here and the sales
manager (one of only a handful employees so far) is working the bar, tell him
the Googler from New York sent you. I had the Double Black IPA and the American
Red Porter, and a taste of the Dry-Hopped Rhubarb Tart, which was very
interesting. I’d like to try all of the others.

**[Wynkoop Brewing](http://www.wynkoop.com/)** - Gophercon had an event here,
so I didn’t get the real experience. Based on the beers I had, I’d come back to
try this brewery during open hours.

**[Great Divide](http://greatdivide.com/)** - I love Great Divide beers.
Chocolate Oak Aged Yeti is my favorite. But, Great Divide is really well
distributed in New York, so there was nothing on tap that I hadn’t had. The
space was nice and industrial. If you are unfamiliar with Great Divide beer,
come here. If you are well-acquainted, skip this and head straight to Black
Shirt up the street.

**[Crema Coffee House](http://cremacoffeehouse.net/)** - Get up early to get a
delicious breakfast burrito and an expertly made cappuccino. *_Come here at all
costs_*._

# Boulder Eats

**[Twisted Pine Brewing](https://twistedpinebrewing.com/)** - Their beer is
really tasty, as is their food. They have a good amount of outdoor seating. I’d
definitely come back. Billy’s Chilies, a chili beer, is not to be missed, as is
the Big Shot Espresso Stout. Get a sampler and a pizza, I recommend the
Omnivore, but don’t burn your mouth as I did.

**[Upslope Brewing](http://upslopebrewing.com/)** - Upslope has two taproom
operations in the Boulder area. I went to their newer facility, which is really
gorgeous, if a bit. Get a sampling of 4oz pours of whatever suits your fancy.

**[West Flanders Brewing](http://wfbrews.com/)** - The main quality of this
place is that they are a centrally-located brewery that serves decent burgers.
Enough said.

**[Spruce Farm & Fish](http://spruceboulderado.com/)** - Located at my hotel, I
only had breakfast and dessert here, and I’d definitely come back. This is a
farm-to-table concept with reasonable prices and tasty food.

**[Mountain Sun Brewery](http://www.mountainsunpub.com/)** - This place is
legendary in Boulder, and has been said to give the real Boulder experience:
laid back and pleasant. The beer they brew is original and there is something
to appease everyone. Sit outside and get a few small pours.  If you are into
spicy and need calories, the spicy chicken burrito will satiate a few desires.

**[Avery Brewing](http://averybrewing.com/)** - I’m sitting outside here as I
write this report. *_Come here at all costs_*. Avery produces some great,
innovative, off-the-wall beer that I’ve always appreciated. Their beer menu is
*humongous*: have a lot of small pours of anything that looks attractive. They
annotate their menu for beers that are rare and have everything from a 4%
pilsner to a 17.22% pumpkin porter. Inside is loud during peak hour, so sit
outside until the mosquitos come after sunset, and then move inside. The
service can be a bit slow, so have patience, but everyone is very friendly and
helpful. Ask the dog owners if you can pet the four-legged friends in
attendance.

**[The Cup](http://www.thecupboulder.com/)** - A cafe on Pearl Street, I came
here for breakfast before a ride. They serve up good coffee and bagels: get a
sausage, egg, and cheese on a bagel.

**[License No. 1](http://license1boulderado.com/)** - A genuine speakeasy
beneath the Hotel Boulderado, you have to learn the secret knock to get in. The
scene was happening and full of well-dressed youths, some of whom were dancing
to the jazz music.

# Denver Rides

**Lookout Hill** - [[planned](http://ridewithgps.com/routes/9192051),
[actual](https://www.strava.com/activities/343381692)] We only had one day to
do a Denver ride, so we chose the twistiest, most uphill one we could find.
Lookout Hill was an excellent choice: we rode past the malty smell of the
MillerCoors brewery, though the town of Golden, and up the mountainside on a
series of switchbacks. The miles between Denver and Golden are unremarkable and
a bit of a slog, but we were able to hit a steady 24.5mph pace at some points
on the return.

# Boulder Rides

I can’t even describe how many possible rides there are that interconnect all
of the mountain passes, climbs, and descents, so I won’t even prescribe routes,
other than to mention the specific ones I went on:

{{< figure src="/images/post/denver-trip-report/climb_lo.jpg" link="/images/post/denver-trip-report/climb.jpg" caption="Looking back at the Colorado Rockies during the climb out of Ward" >}}

  * **Jamestown to Ward out-and-back**: [[planned](http://ridewithgps.com/routes/8261478), [actual](https://www.strava.com/activities/344041719)] I planned a pretty epic route based on [a really awesome cycling travel company](http://cognoscenti.cc/)’s [publish routes](http://ridewithgps.com/events/Cognoscenti-Routes). This was a phenomenal ride, principally starting out by leaving Boulder to
    the north and climbing Lee Hill Drive, having truly phenomenal descent
    through Lefthand Canyon, arriving at Jamestown only to have an epic, long
    climb up Overland, which eventually turns into dirt. I continued onto the
    legendary Peak-to-Peak Highway (which is not a highway at all, aside from
    it being really, really high up). I met up with a friendly cyclist going
    the same pace, and I followed him to Ward. Unfortunately, my plans didn’t
    call for me descending into Ward, and then I decided to further descend
    down the awesome Lefthand Canyon Drive -- in the wrong direction. I had to
    climb back and past Ward to the Peak-to-Peak, and in my tired stupor, I
    made a left instead of a right, and accidentally turned my ride into an
    out-and-back. 
  * **Gold Hill and Flagstaff**: [[planned](http://ridewithgps.com/routes/9227869), [actual](https://www.strava.com/activities/344790162)] Feeling that my Northeastern legs were not used to consecutive days of
    climbing-heavy cycling, I wanted to construct a shorter ride to hit some
    Boulder mainstays. I chose to string two out-and-backs together. Gold Hill
    is a mere 10mi away from Boulder -- 10mi of the most interesting climbing
    I’ve experienced. First is Four Mile Canyon, which even a seasoned beginner
    can accomplish in the small gear: it was really quite pleasant, and you get
    the almost all the scenery that a more substantial climb delivers. That
    turns into Gold Run Road, which is not for the faint hearted: it is a steep
    dirt road that never ends until passing through the town of Gold Hill.
    Exiting the town is the most scenic climb I’ve made, with all of the
    Colorado Rockies behind you. After a good while, the ascent peters out into
    a scenic plain, which then turns into an epic descent. The first half of it
    is steep dirt: use your rear brake going around the hairpin turns at your
    own risk (you have disk brakes, don’t you?).  Then it turns into sweet,
    sweet pavement of the smoothest variety: go as fast as your skills and wits
    allow. Steep, downhill segments, a few up-and-downs, and a whole lot of
    turning made this into the most fun I’ve ever had on a bike: it was truly a
    “woohoo” moment.

    Returning back to town, the Flagstaff climb starts immediately after the
    return decent finishes. Flagstaff is simply a series of not-impossible
    hairpin ascents, culminating at a peak lookout park.  Traffic here is
    heavy, as there are lots of car-oriented overlooks; go early if you can,
    but don’t skip this climb just for this factor alone. I would have liked to
    proceed onto the town Nederland, a considerable climb and distance away,
    but I knew my legs were not having it. Next time.

Okay, enough for the ride descriptions. People that know my riding style know
that I’m not in cycling merely to go fast, as fun as that is. I like the
combination of mental endurance trials, physical feedback (aka sore legs),
visual stimulus, and experiencing what the locales and the locals have to
offer, especially in the culinary sense. I stopped in the following towns:  

**Jamestown** - There is a [single store in this
town](http://www.jamestownmercantile.com/) that serves up some phenomenal
breakfast options. On my first pass through, I picked up some bananas and
banana bread and availed myself to their water container… store the banana
bread in your pocket for a mid-ride snack later on… it was worth the weight. On
my unexpected return, I figured I’d relish the outdoor seating with the
babbling brook nearby, and I got the largest breakfast burrito that has ever
been made. “I made a mistake,” said the chef, approaching me with a plate of
food. “I accidentally made it *huge*.” Watch the cyclists riding by, pet the
dogs, and listen to the
brook.

**Ward** - This town has a whole *two* shops: a general store and an antique
shop. Stop in at the Utica Street Market (too remote to have a website, it
seems) and order a carefully-made espresso.  Sit outside and revel at all of
the high-end bikes that pass by while reveling at the big blue open sky. Don’t
make any wrong turns.

{{< figure src="/images/post/denver-trip-report/espresso_lo.jpg" link="/images/post/denver-trip-report/espresso.jpg" caption="A refined pitstop in Gold Hill." >}}

**Gold Hill** - This town seemingly hasn’t changed since the gold rush that
created it in the 1850s. Stop at the [Gold Hill General Store and
Cafe](http://goldhillgeneralstore.com/), order an espresso and home-made
muffin, and sit outside on their picnic bench. Stare at the blue sky. 

As in all of life: talk to the people around you. Figure out how they got there
and what drives them. Figure out what you can learn from their experiences.

# Cycling Shops

For each of these, definitely peruse the shop for anything you might need.
Potentially leave room in your suitcase for a few purchases.

**[University Cycles, Boulder](http://ubikes.com/)** - This is the best cycling
shop I’ve ever been to, even ousting the astounding River City in Portland.
University literally has an army of personnel working the floor: I was waited
on by no less than four separate individuals, all making sure I got what I
wanted. Rent a high-end bicycle (disk brakes are a must) from here for half of
your stay, and then rent a mountain bike for the next half.

**[Elevation Bicycles Co, Denver](http://www.elevationcycles.com/)** -  This is
a really nice shop that has a good selection of high-end brands, with nice
staffers. Definitely rent from them if you’re in Denver, or at least stop by.

# Hotels

In Denver, I stayed at the **Hyatt Regency** and Benny stayed at the **Grand
Hyatt.** Both are nice, but the latter is more modern and chic. I’d stay at
either again.

In Boulder, I stayed at the **Hotel Boulderado**. Owing to the fact that they
have two adjacent buildings joined by a skybridge, the layout is weird. My room
was dark, with one small window. But, overall, it was a nice stay in a very
convenient location. They have two on-premises restaurants and a speakeasy. I’d
recommend staying here even with those caveats, but I might suggest looking at
nearby AirBnB options.

# Getting around

Use the **[B-Cycle public cycling](https://www.bcycle.com/)** network in both
Denver and Boulder. Download the “B-Cycle Now” app, and make an effort to
figure out how to transport yourself via their bikes. It is very convenient and
speedy, even if figuring out the logistics of how to get where you want to go
is cumbersome.

I used **Uber** in both cities for when the destination was too far for
cycling. I was extremely happy with the quality of drivers I enlisted. Each of
them had a great story to tell, and fantastic recommendations.

I’m not sure there is a good way to get between Denver and Boulder, considering
the distance and the traffic between them. To get from Denver to Boulder, I
used Uber, and texted the driver before he arrived to make sure he was cool
with driving all the way there, and then I tipped really well knowing he’d have
to endure the traffic to Denver.

To get from Boulder to the airport, I used SuperShuttle. I’ve always been
concerned about safety with SuperShuttle, and this ride did not allay my
concerns. I might try Green Ride next time.

Don’t bother with renting a car. Parking is annoying and the combination of
B-Cycle and Uber is cheap.

# Known places I didn’t get to

## Boulder

**Nederland** - When you get past the initial Flagstaff climb, more climbing
awaits between there and the town of Nederland. I would have liked to continue
there, but it wasn’t in the cards. I have no idea what is there, aside from the
fact that many cyclists recommend it.

**[Boxcar Coffee Roasters](http://www.boxcarcoffeeroasters.com/)** -
recommended by an Uber driver, they are supposed to have good espresso.

**[Asher Brewing](http://asherbrewing.com/)** - Located right around the corner
from Avery, Asher deals exclusively in organic brewing. But, the Avery brews
are way too high octane to allow for a satisfactory trip to both in one outing.

## Denver

**[Onefold](http://onefolddenver.com/)** - Supposedly phenomenal good coffee
and breakfast burritos.

Breweries: **[TRVE Brewing](http://trvebrewing.com/)** (BLACK METAL!!!!),
**[Renegade Brewing](http://renegadebrewing.com/)**, **[Copper Kettle
Brewing](http://www.copperkettledenver.com/)**, **[Breckenridge
Brewery](http://www.breckbrew.com/)**

