+++
date = "2016-09-27T00:26:52Z"
title = "Trip Report: Grand Teton National Park"
+++

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160920_161644_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160920_161644.jpg">}}

My team won an company award for some software we built which resulted in a
trip to Jackson, Wyoming and Grand Teton National Park (GTNP). [Having visited
just last year](https://ericgar.com/2015/11/14/2015-08-19-jackson-wyoming/), I
had a good picture of what was ahead of me. I was excited to return to
experience the breathtaking views, to breathe in some heavy mountain air, and
to see some cute, furry animals. The group was planned to meet on Monday
afternoon, but I thought it would be fun to extend my trip to include the
weekend to do some additional hiking. Since my wife would be busy at graduate
school, I decided to embark on my first real camping trip too.

Literally months went into planning those three days. Having never camped
before, and with my propensity for technical and logistical research, I scoured
the web for ideas on where to go, what to bring, and [how not to get eaten by a
bear](https://www.nps.gov/grte/planyourvisit/bearsafety.htm). 

## Friday

I arrived later than expected in the afternoon because of a mechanical issue on
my plane. I had a couple of orders of business: pick up my rental car, eat a
non-airport meal, purchase camping fuel and bear spray, and obtain a campsite.
With great luck, the latter had been taken care of while I was on the plane by
a colleague of my wife’s and the colleague’s new husband -- but still mere
strangers to me -- who happened to be in GTNP for part of their honeymoon
(which I inadvertently crashed).

**[Dornan’s](https://www.dornans.com/)**: I stopped in at [Moosely
Mountaineering](http://www.skinnyskis.com/moosely-mountaineering/) which was
out of both things I needed. The cashier said the best source would be all the
way back in Jackson. As I turned to leave, he then suggested that the general
store across the street might have some. I have no idea why this wasn’t the
first suggestion: [the general store](http://dornans.com/grocery/) was fully
stocked with almost everything someone would need for camping, including
multiple sizes and types of fuel and bear spray, and a huge variety of other
goods. Seriously, if you stopped into this general store naked, you could walk
out with a complete camping setup. I stopped in at [Dornan’s famous open-air
restaurant](http://dornans.com/dining/chuckwagon/) for lunch with a view of the
mountains, sharing a table with a very nice Swedish couple.

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160916_161734_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160916_161734.jpg" caption="Tent site at Signal Mountain.">}}

**[Signal Mountain
Campground](http://www.signalmountainlodge.com/signal-mountain-camping)**: In
the course of my research, I looked at every picture and read every review of
all the campgrounds in GTNP to try to get a sense of which would be best for
this weekend. Jenny Lake is the most popular, so it fills up earliest, but part
of it is undergoing construction. Gros Ventre has great views of the mountains,
but is huge, doesn’t fill, and has no facilities. (Colter Bay and Lizard Creek
were already closed for the season, but were too far away from Jackson and the
southern trailheads.) All are first-come, first-served, so there can be
competition.

Signal Mountain, on the other hand, is relatively small, on Jackson Lake, and a
new shower and laundry facility and general store were recently built there. It
is more centrally-located, though still a ways from Jackson. I think this was
the right choice for the weekend.

Julia and Kyle snagged me [spot #17, right next to
theirs](http://marydonahue.org/signal-mountain-campground-map). There are three
separate tent-only spots very close to each other in that area, each with their
own fire ring and bear box. All three had views of the lake and the mountains
through some trees. These spots are just down the road from an expansive rocky
beach on Jackson’s shore with several picnic tables and stellar views. The only
downside was that the designated tent beds are very rocky. 

The [Signal Mountain General
Store](http://www.signalmountainlodge.com/signal-mountain-shopping) is
[extraordinarily well
stocked](http://jacksonholecontracting.com/signal-mountain-general-store-renovation/)
with everything from camping supplies to frozen burritos. Their [walk-in beer
fridge](/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160916_160246.jpg) is
notably good. I immediately purchased a box of firewood, a six-pack
of a local IPA and their “famous” “Mountain Cookie”, which is a freshly-baked
combination of every kind of cookie imaginable, and walked back to a table on
the beach.

Upon their return from hiking, J+K hosted me by their campfire, where we cooked
some boil-in-a-bag dinners and discussed plans for tomorrow. J+K were
contemplating making the hike down Granite Canyon, the hike I planned to lead
for my group later in the week, but were tantalized by the idea of summiting
one of the Tetons. They were gracious enough to let me tag along.

## Saturday

We woke up to a 5am alarm (plus a nearly simultaneous *car alarm* from across
the campground…) to get an early start.

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160917_122456_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160917_122456.jpg" caption="At the summit of Static Peak.">}}

**[Hiking to Static Peak](http://www.summitpost.org/static-peak/583118)**:
Hiking this trail turned out to be one of the best decisions I’ve ever been
involved with. At 18 miles (29 km) round-trip and with over 5,300 feet (1615 m)
of elevation to climb, it was the hardest hiking trail any of us had done.
Including frequent breaks and a long time soaking in the chilly summit air and
brilliant sunshine, the route took us about 10 hours to complete.

The views were unparalleled. The trail was in great shape. The bear we briefly
spotted didn’t want anything to do with us. We came back sore, tired, and
hungry.

It was a great hike.

Upon arrival back at camp, we made use of the newly installed showers up the
road. The well-kept facilities rival those at [my
office](https://www.google.com/about/careers/locations/new-york/).

**[Dinner at Signal Mountain
Lodge](http://www.signalmountainlodge.com/signal-mountain-dining)**: Our food
for the day so far consisted of a pack of Entenmann's donuts, some PB&J
sandwiches, and a bunch of energy bars. The closest, best source of calories
was at the nearby lodge. A burger, some fries, a margarita, and a local craft
beer filled in some of the caloric deficit I built up.

After some time by a campfire, sleep beckoned all of us.

## Sunday

**[Breakfast at Nora's Fish Creek Inn:](http://www.norasfishcreekinn.com/)**
While J+K went on a rafting trip down the Snake River, I used my time to
revisit Nora’s, a local favorite for diner-style breakfast, in order to satisfy
the remainder of my calorie deficit. A huge breakfast burrito and a half-order
of biscuits and gravy set me straight.

On the way back toward Jackson, I encountered one of those moments that really
make a trip memorable: the police briefly shut down the only road connecting
the neighboring towns of Jackson and Wilson to allow [a cattle drive of hundreds
of cows to proceed unhindered by traffic](https://goo.gl/photos/TL5ZdRejAv9NpFuH8).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/654IVms0IYM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**[Getting a campsite at Gros
Ventre](http://www.gtlc.com/rv/gros-ventre-campground)**: Since it was J+K’s
last day in GTNP before moving on to southern destinations, I decided to move
camp to Gros Ventre, which is closer to town. I was placed in spot #231,
between the F and G loops along the main road, where my backyard was the
entirety of the valley floor, backstopped by the Tetons. Once nice feature of
GV over SM is that the tent pads are comparatively softer. I’d later find out
the downsides: the bathrooms were in much worse condition (admittedly an odd
complaint while camping)  and the whole campground felt much like my hometown
of New York: impersonal due to its size.

**[Lunch at Snake River Brewing](http://www.snakeriverbrewing.com/)**: After
perusing the shops around town, I met up with J+K for lunch. Our preferred
destination was Thai Me Up, a combination Thai restaurant and brewery (more on
this below), but turns out they’re only open for dinner. The next logical
choice is the next closest brewery. I shied away from the peach/chorizo pizza
experience from the previous year and opted for the enjoyable brussel sprout
salad paired with their double IPA, both of which I’d have again.

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/reading_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/reading.jpg">}}

**[Taggart Lake
Trailhead](http://www.tetonhikingtrails.com/taggart-lake.htm)**: I had a whole
afternoon to kill, and, still sore from the previous day’s hike, I opted to not
hike up yet another mountain. I instead found a nice tree just off the start of
the Taggart Lake trailhead to lean against while reading *Into the Wild*, a
story about a young man throwing away his ties to an ordinary life -- and
ultimately life itself -- by venturing into nature, a fitting story for the
moment.

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160918_183015_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160918_183015.jpg" caption="Best non-empty signal I've seen at a bar.">}}

**[Dinner at Thai Me Up](http://www.thaijh.com/) (and [Melvin
Brewing](http://www.melvinbrewing.com/))**: Along with the Static Peak summit,
this was a highlight of this trip. I had low expectations for a combination
Thai restaurant that is also a brewery, picturing a run-down place with
someone’s yellow fizzy water.

I could not have been more wrong. The food, beer, and ambiance at Thai Me Up is
simply on point. The yellow curry was luscious and silky and the potstickers
were crispy where it counts and delicious (both had at happy hour prices, no
less!). Paired with the award winning [2x4
DIPA](http://www.melvinbrewing.com/2x4-dipa/), it got even better. It turns out
Melvin was named the [Best Small Brewery at the 2015 Great American Beer
Festival](https://www.greatamericanbeerfestival.com/the-competition/winners/),
and won a bunch of other awards too. The effort they put into their entire
operation really shows. (The [biography of the first
co-founder](http://www.melvinbrewing.com/about-1/) sounds like a dream, but I’m
sure it hides a bunch of the stress required to build something great).  

Never did I think I’d spend a Sunday night in Jackson, Wyoming having great
beer, with great food, listening to hip hop and [watching Kung
Fu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tai_Chi_0) on mute. This is an experience
wherein any one part would make an enjoyable evening, but altogether make for
an amazing experience. I wish I had the opportunity to return.

I returned to my campsite, set a campfire, and got scared by a moose walking
through the brush next to me.

## Monday

I tore down my camp for the last time this trip, and maybe even this year or
forever, having no future camping trip planned.

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160919_092002_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160919_092002.jpg" caption="My view during breakfast at String Lake.">}}

**Hiking to [Inspiration
Point](http://www.tetonhikingtrails.com/inspiration-point.htm) and into
[Cascade Canyon](http://www.tetonhikingtrails.com/cascade-canyon.htm)**:
Knowing the threat of bears in the area, I was hesitant to go hiking alone, so
I picked a heavily-used path for a half-day venture. After Static Peak, and
with a whole tour bus-full of people, Inspiration Point was not too impressive;
a better view can be easily had by driving up Signal Mountain. I propelled
myself farther up the slope into Cascade Canyon, which provided the hike I was
looking for. On the return, I came across a whole family of moose. Encounters
with humans were all-too-frequent to not worry about bear issues.

While driving around GTNP, I realized I could make a positive difference in
someone’s life by picking up some hitchhikers. But the form this took was
unexpected. Upon arriving at my car, I was approached by a husband and wife of
refined age whom I had passed on the trail a few minutes earlier. The woman
explained that they expected the loop around Jenny Lake to only be 2 miles,
when I noted that they were only half way around the 7.1 mile trail. I was more
than happy to ferry them back to their car at the Jenny Lake Ranger Station.

**[Snake River Lodge](http://www.snakeriverlodge.com/)**: After washing the one
outfit I brought on this trip at Signal Mountain, and using up my remaining
tokens by also taking a shower, I checked in to my employer-sponsored,
non-primitive housing. This hotel was nothing to write home about; I did
appreciate the largess of the shower and the presence of a one-person whirlpool
next to it. The service at breakfast was friendly and the food all-American. I
would have preferred to stay at the Four Seasons next door...

**[Handle Bar at the Four
Seasons](http://www.fourseasons.com/jacksonhole/dining/restaurants/the_handle_bar/)**:
...which is where I headed for beer after gathering a bunch of colleagues. The
beer is expensive, but there are great options, and it can come in a boot.

**[Dinner at the Mangy Moose](http://www.mangymoose.com)**: Skip it if you can.
I will say that the watermelon-infused steak sauce was something I’ve never had
before.

## Tuesday

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160920_093127_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160920_093127.jpg" caption="Looking up the trail. The colors on the Aspen turned the valley into a sea of gold.">}}

**Hiking [Coal Creek
Meadows](http://www.tetonhikingtrails.com/coal-creek-meadows.htm)**: I opted
for the organized group hike sponsored by the company and fulfilled by [The
Hole Hiking Experience](http://www.holehike.com/). I had looked at this
outfit before deciding I was comfortable trying to hike alone and was sceptical
of their services: how hard it it to drive to a well-marked trail and walk on
it? Well, I was again surprised. Our guide, Bev, was simply excellent. She
seemed to know everything about everything we saw, heard, smelled, or felt
along the trail. She was a wealth of knowledge that would have been worth an
out-of-pocket admission price. The hike itself was in the Jedediah Smith
Wilderness, itself within the Caribou-Targhee National Forest (both are
[designations of federal varying
specificity](http://www.americantrails.org/resources/fedland/FedLandMgmtDefinitions.html)).

**Lunch at the Handle Bar**: Upon return to Teton Village, I headed straight
back to the Handle Bar to refuel with a beer, a burger, and an apple crisp for
an afternoon hike.

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160920_151602_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160920_151602.jpg" caption="">}}

**[Hiking Taggart and Bradley
Lakes](http://www.tetonhikingtrails.com/bradley-lake.htm)**: Yuko and I did
part of this hike last year, but it nagged me that we didn’t go to Bradley
Lake, which adds just a couple of miles to the route. On the afternoon of my
visit, the main legs of the route were in heavy use, including two loud groups
of school children. The ancillary legs were significantly less populated and a
long time passed between human sightings. This is a worthy, short hike with
splendid views, and one that is especially accessible alone.

**[Dinner at Spur](http://www.tetonlodge.com/spur-restaurant.aspx)**: We had
another organized group dinner here, which was made particularly good by the
careful attention of our waitstaff. The beer selection was decent, the food was
tasty, and my company for the evening was entertaining and enlightening.

## Wednesday

My company offered another scheduled group activity but a number of us
declined. Instead, I organized a trip down the 13.1 mile canyon route into GTNP
behind the resorts.

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/granite_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/granite.jpg" caption="Me leading the way.">}}

**[Hiking Granite
Canyon](http://www.tetonhikingtrails.com/granite-canyon.htm)**: This is a
worthy hike, but it involves cheating: you take the tram up to the summit and
the route is almost all downhill. The biggest views occur right at the start
and get progressively less interesting. 

After having a big breakfast and picking up some provisions at the nearby
[Bodega](http://bodegajacksonhole.com/), we took the first tram up the mountain
at 9am. I stashed an overpriced waffle from [Corbet’s
Cabin](http://www.jacksonhole.com/waffles.html) at the summit for later (a bad
choice, due to sogginess), and started down the path. This accessible hike
brought the standard stunning GTNP canyon views and a single faraway moose.
With a couple of stops, we took 6h15m to descend back to the hotel.

If staying in Teton Village, this hike is strongly recommended given its
proximity.

**[Million Dollar Cowboy Bar](http://www.milliondollarcowboybar.com/)**:
Another group dinner. This place is famous and touristy. Skip it. Go next door
to [Local](http://localjh.com/).

## Thursday

After breakfast at the hotel, I had a few hours to kill before my flight. The
Moose-Wilson Road was closed this week for construction, so I had to go through
Jackson.

**[Persephone](http://persephonebakery.com/)**: My conversation was similar to
last year: *“I’ll take a blueberry muffin and a soy macchiato, please.”* “Our
macchiato has only two shots of espresso and some milk foam on top. Are you
sure this is what you want?” *“Exactly.”* Both the muffin and the macchiato
were perfect, as expected. I learned that the owner opened up a sister
restaurant nearby called [Picnic](http://picnicjh.com/) that looks positively
delightful.

I dropped off the remainder of my camp fuel at the [Gros Ventre recycling
station](http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/yellowstone-park-foundation-and-bernzomatic-launch-industry-leading-camping-cylinder-recycling-program-300278576.html),
donated my bear spray at the GTNP Visitor Center, gassed up the rental car at
Dornan’s, stared at the mountains some more, and then flew home.

{{< figure src="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160918_192219-PANO_small.jpg" link="/images/post/jackson-hole-2016/IMG_20160918_192219-PANO.jpg" caption="The Tetons at sunset.">}}

I took [a lot more photos](https://goo.gl/photos/t7TC9ED4KsLhR23h7).

## Random 

There were a few pieces of information that I couldn’t find on the web that
would have been useful on this trip:

*   Many hikers use 1L SmartWater bottles for water portage. They can
    definitely be found at the general store in Moose and probably elsewhere.
*   Firewood can be purchased at the Signal Mountain general store or from the
    camp host at Gros Ventre. The wood comes in a cardboard box and has some
    kindling and some larger logs. It was $7 or so per box.
*   American Airlines definitely does not supply heavy-duty plastic bags at La
    Guardia Airport, which have been claimed to be useful for checking a
    backpack.
*   You can check to see what time the various campgrounds filled the previous
    day by calling 307-739-3603, then pressing option 1, and then 1 again.
*   Having an SUV for the road to the Death Canyon trailhead is recommended.
