---
title: "Trip Report: Richmond, Virgina"
date: 2017-09-09T01:26:27Z
taxonomies:
  tag: travel
---

Yuko and I travelled to Richmond, Virginia, aka RVA, to meet up with some
friends. Richmond is in the middle of a coffee, beer, donut, and ice cream
explosion, so we wanted to get a taste of everything. The city has reportedly
changed dramatically in the last few years, [being a recipient of a strong dose
of
hipsterism](http://www.richmond.com/entertainment/hipster-culture-is-flourishing-in-richmond/article_47456c64-9edd-5996-a194-b5d1d202ea16.html).
Richmond was a perfect target of this cultural shift, since the city has a
vibrant college scene and underutilized industrial spaces.

Besides my friend moving there from the Charlottesville area (another gorgeous
city in Virginia, albeit an order of magnitude smaller), Richmond got on my
radar for two other, specific reasons: 

1. The city hosted the [Union Cycliste Internationale Road Championships in
	 2015](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2015_UCI_Road_World_Championships),
	 which were used for qualification for the Summer Olympics in 2016. The city
	 was effectively shuttered in support of the races. While I don't love
   professional cycling, I regret not going down for this experience.
1.  [Stone Brewing opened their second brewhouse in the
	 city](http://www.richmond.com/food-drink/richmond-is-getting-stone-brewing-co-and-a-restaurant-too/article_eedf9ccc-b12c-11e3-bc92-0017a43b2370.html).
   Stone has gotten huge in craft brewing partially because of what they've done
	 in supporting the craft brewing community, and that's cool.

As is typical of me and my wife, our eyes are bigger than our stomachs (and,
likely, our arteries) and we both agreed that we won't be able to do a trip
like this anytime soon, if ever again. We expect and hope that our next trip
will consist of running up mountains and sampling the finest local salad shops.

## Saturday

**[Mrs Yoder's Kitchen Donuts](https://www.facebook.com/mrsyoderskitchen/) at
the [South of the James Farmers Market](https://www.growrva.com/soj)**: Since
these donuts are only sold at this one place on Sundays and only until they run
out or noon, which ever comes first, we got out of our hotel room and headed
straight to pre-breakfast. These donuts are not to be missed: each donut is
served hot out of the hopper, with a perfect texture, and just the right amount
of sugar coating. The line moves quickly. The rest of the farmers market looked
great, but we didn't have a chance to sample anything else before it started to
close down.

{{< figure src="/images/post/richmond-2017/0_small.jpg" link="/images/post/richmond-2017/0.jpg">}}

**[Lunch or Supper](https://www.lunchorsupper.com/)**: "Some of the best
examples of New Southern Cuisine in the city," says my friend. We went for
brunch and had a tasty brew outside while waiting for our table. The "Mexican
Sunrise Breakfast Bowl" was basically a decomposed breakfast burrito and was
delightful.

**[Carytown](http://www.carytownrva.com/index.html)**: This is a neat
neighborhood with lots of unique shops and restaurants. We visited:

* **[One-Eyed Jacques](https://www.facebook.com/oneeyedjacques/)**: A
  card/puzzle/game shop with a very nice selection.

* **[Carrytown Bicycle Co.](https://www.carytownbikes.com/)**: This shop would
	be in the top five for my "bike shops I'd love to live near" list. Their
  [brand selection](https://www.carytownbikes.com/pages/brands) is well curated,
  as are [their accessories](https://www.carytownbikes.com/collections/all).

* **[Mongrels](https://www.mongrelrva.com/)**: The kind of shop with a million
  kitschy items; they get respect from me for being very clearly politically
	motivated.

* **[World of Mirth](http://worldofmirth.com/)**: Let your
	inner-child-with-credit-card loose in this toy store, which is part retro and
	part contemporary. I never knew my wife would buy and enjoy a Playdoh-like
  molding clay.

{{< figure src="/images/post/richmond-2017/1_small.jpg" link="/images/post/richmond-2017/1.jpg">}}

**[Stone Brewing](http://www.stonebrewing.com/visit/outposts/richmond)**:
Definitely the most well-funded tap room of the ones we went to, Stone has a
large selection on tap, about half of which is their usual stuff and the rest
is more interesting. They also have some great RVA-specific merch.

**[Triple Crossing Brewing](http://www.triplecrossingbeer.com/)** (their Fulton
location): Good beer? Check. Pizza? Check. Locally-made ice cream sandwiches?
Arcade games? Outdoor patio with games? Check, check, and check. I wish I had a
dog to bring here, to blend in.

{{< figure src="/images/post/richmond-2017/2_small.jpg" link="/images/post/richmond-2017/2.jpg">}}

**[Walk across the pedestrian bridge at Browns
Island](http://www.richmond.com/news/bridge-connecting-brown-s-island-and-manchester-set-to-open/article_b451bc73-b2e6-595e-8c51-3722511a730a.html)**:
We picked up my friends' dogs and took them for a walk across the James River
on this pedestrian-only bridge. The views of the river and its wildlife were
nice. I'd definitely recommend going, but maybe not in the late-day sun and
heat in July.

{{< figure src="/images/post/richmond-2017/3_small.jpg" link="/images/post/richmond-2017/3.jpg">}}

**[Brenner Pass](https://www.facebook.com/brennerpassrva/)**: I got credit from
my Richmond-residing friend for finding out about this then two week-old restaurant,
which I only found out about [by stalking The Veil
Brewing](http://richmondmagazine.com/restaurants-in-richmond/brenner-pass-the-veil-brewing-co-collaboration/)
(I like to do travel research!), who did a collaboration brew for the
restaurant. (In my experience, a restaurant having a relationship with a good
brewery is extra points for both the restaurant and the brewery). Dinner was
pretty good, but there were clearly still some things to iron out. The
alpine-inspired (think: Swiss mountains, fondue) cocktail and food menus were
certainly very interesting, but it was hard to understand the beer list because
they replaced half of it without reprinting the menu. I'd definitely try it
again when it matures.

## Sunday

**[Millie's](http://milliesdiner.com/)**: We needed a brunch place close to the
speech (see below), and this fit the bill. "Messes", a melange of
locally-sourced ingredients, are apparently a Richmond thing. The current
events-inspired songs in the per-table (non-functional) jukeboxes should be
reviewed. Recommended, but not life-changing.

**[Proper Pie Co.](https://www.facebook.com/ProperPieCo/)**: We had some time
to kill and what better way than doing so with delicious pie. The strawberry
rhubarb left me wanting another couple of pieces and additional return trips.

{{< figure src="/images/post/richmond-2017/4_small.jpg" link="/images/post/richmond-2017/4.jpg">}}

**[Patrick Henry's "Liberty or Death" speech at the St. John's
Church](https://www.historicstjohnschurch.org/liberty-or-death-reenactments/)**:
In the summer on Sundays, this church stages a reenactment of a 1775 meeting of
Virginia representatives, where Patrick Henry gave his famous ["Liberty or
Death" speech](http://www.history.org/almanack/life/politics/giveme.cfm). I
thought there would be a guy dressed in period costume who merely recited the
speech, but instead the reenactment made the audience feel like they were
representatives hearing the speech for the first time. I loved this, since I
love Revolutionary War history, but I'm not sure my companions were as
enthralled. (The opening act of a patriotic song sing-a-long Ã  la pipe organ,
while well-intended, could be eliminated without loss).   

**[The Veil Brewing](http://www.theveilbrewing.com/)**: Technical,
well-executed beer with lots of double hopped options? I'll take it! The
taproom is well appointed with a clean, industrial look.

**[Ardent Craft Ales](http://ardentcraftales.com/)**: Good beer. Notable for
being one of the few of the breweries to provide flights as an option. Feels a
lot more homey than some of the other industrial spaces.

**[Gelati Celesti Ice Cream](https://www.gelatiicecream.com/)**: OMG great ice
cream. Their flavor selection is large and interesting and has great execution.
I wanted to have all of them, but I ended up with the "Blanchard's Dark as
Dark", which contains grinds from locally-roasted espresso beans, and the "Just
Ask", which has peanut butter and Oreo bits. You should see the size of the
waffle cones!. I regret not going back to get an ice cream sandwich and an ice
cream pie. *Damn, now I'm craving an ice cream sandwich as I'm typing this.*

**[Hardywood Brewing](https://hardywood.com/)**: Innovative brews with local
ingredients, with lots of experiments. I had the [Mamaw's Mean Cobbler
tripel](https://hardywood.com/beers/mamaws-mean-cobbler/) which really tastes
like a peach pie, but better because it's beer. I also picked up the [Virginia
Blackberry white ale](https://hardywood.com/beers/virginia-blackberry/), since
Virginia is well known for my favorite berry.

**[Graffiato](http://graffiatorva.com/)**: After a well-earned nap back at the
hotel, Yuko and I went across the street to this Italian-inspired restaurant by
a former Top Chef contestant. As my friend said, one should not travel from New
York to Richmond to have pizza, but we were pleasantly surprised. We also
enjoyed the appetizers and sides, as well as the well-managed beer list. (I
didn't try their [100% rum-free pineapple
juice](https://goo.gl/photos/GcwYenKsSESAfxNP6), though).

## Monday

**[The Lab by Alchemy](http://www.alchemycoffeerva.com/)**: We stopped by for
an espresso with what seemed to be the employees of a bike messenger company,
(Or were they just hipsters?). Good espresso, but otherwise unremarkable.

**[The Black Sheep](https://www.yelp.com/biz/the-black-sheep-richmond)**: This
place is known for their ginormous sandwiches, each named after an American
battleship. A full sandwich is literally a whole baguette stuffed with a
variety of ingredients, but they graciously offer the ability to order a half,
which itself can be shared with two or three people. Now, if you know me, you
know that I love sandwiches. I see what they are doing with the size thing, but
these were just hard to eat; they devolve into having a salad with a fork and a
huge piece of baguette on the side. Plus, the service was slow and black flies
were aplenty.

{{< figure src="/images/post/richmond-2017/5_small.jpg" link="/images/post/richmond-2017/5.jpg">}}

**[Sugar Shack Donuts](http://www.sugarshackdonuts.com/)**: Innovative flavors,
sometimes with non-donut stuff on the top ([a la
Voodoo](https://www.voodoodoughnut.com/)). Delicious. No place to sit except
some lawn chairs outside in the sun; this place primarily fills boxes for
people who drive here.

{{< figure src="/images/post/richmond-2017/6_small.jpg" link="/images/post/richmond-2017/6.jpg">}}

**[Tredegar Iron
Works](https://www.nps.gov/nr/travel/richmond/tredegar.html)**: We made a
mistake and only went to the museum portion of this former cannon manufacturer.
The notable thing about the museum is that they take great effort to portray
the war from three different aspects: from the Union side, from the Confederate
side, and from the slave side.

**[Virginia Museum of Fine Arts](https://vmfa.museum/)**: We had the rest of
the afternoon to kill before our friends got off from work, so we went to the
VMFA and the [Yves Saint Laurent
exhibit](https://vmfa.museum/exhibitions/exhibitions/yves-saint-laurent-perfection-style/).
Visiting the permanent collection of this surprisingly huge museum is free
(donations encouraged, of course!), but the special exhibit costs money. I'm
not a huge fashion person (which is obvious for people who know me; I wear a
uniform), so that aspect of the exhibit and YSL's historical importance was
lost on me, but the exhibit itself was well done. As for the permanent
collection: I felt like we were at [the Met](http://www.metmuseum.org/) and
were similarly overwhelmed, which was an odd feeling to have at a museum in
Richmond, Virginia, of all places.

{{< figure src="/images/post/richmond-2017/7_small.jpg" link="/images/post/richmond-2017/7.jpg">}}

**[Three Notch'd Brewing](http://threenotchdbrewing.com/)**: We walked to this
Charlottesville-based brewery, which also nicely provided the option of a
flight. Their darker stuff and IPAs were great. Since we're past the point of
no return in our relationship, I summoned my hard-earned, college-honed
foosball skills and schooled my wife on their table in the back.

{{< figure src="/images/post/richmond-2017/8_small.jpg" link="/images/post/richmond-2017/8.jpg">}}

**[Mean Bird](http://www.meanbirdrva.com/)**: A popular food truck recently
opened a brick-and-mortar location, so we had to visit it. My friend thinks we
visited on an off day, as the fried chicken didn't live up to his previous
experiences. Still, I'd have the vegan "fried chicken" any day of the week.

**[Strangeways Brewing](https://strangewaysbrewing.com/)**: We took our two
giant bags of chicken, "chicken", and sides to this brewery, which was totally
amenable to this (we called ahead). The beer was great and they have lots of
board games idly standing by.

**[GWARbar](http://gwarbar.com/)**: One of my life regrets will be having never
gone to a performance of Richmond-based GWAR while their original frontman was
still alive. Who doesn't love [fake blood being sprayed on
you](https://youtu.be/Em-eMRLfcYc?t=12s) by [immaculately costumed barbaric
interplanetary warriors](https://goo.gl/images/Tqpt4i) [while they shred on
their guitars](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2NzA4XLjRaM)? (They also [give
love advice](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hqqgFPrYgu4), [sing Christmas
carols](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vaSkRbbBBUg), and [make.. um... fun of
Justin Bieber](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ae4ky-gzJtg)). Plus, they have
[an annual barbeque/music festival](http://gwarbq.com/)! (But not this year
because they are writing a new record!) And they have an eponymous bar where we
had GWAR Blood (appropriately, [a red ale brewed by
Strangeways](https://strangewaysbrewing.com/beers/gwar-blood-2/)). But,
otherwise, it's just a bar with some interesting decor; as somewhat of a GWAR
fan, I'm glad I went.

**[Quirk Hotel's Q Rooftop
Bar](https://www.destinationhotels.com/quirk-hotel/q-rooftop-bar)**: Staying at
the hotel gave us priority access to the rooftop as a perk, which meant we
could cut the line, which can grow amazingly long on weekend nights. I liked
this rooftop bar because they maintained a strict capacity cap, which resulted
in it not feeling crowded and us not needing to shout at each other. Good mixed
drinks, mediocre but acceptable beer selection.  It was nice enough that we
enjoyed each other's company until after last call on our last night in town, a
nice end to our trip.

## Things We Didn't Do

These are some places that were recommended by my friend, but that we didn't
get to.

### History

* [The White House of the
  Confederacy](https://www.nps.gov/nr/travel/richmond/WhiteHouse_of_theConfederacy.html):
  I was recommended to go to only one of Tredegar or this.
* [Hollywood Cemetery](https://www.hollywoodcemetery.org/): A couple of
  presidents are buried here, and it is supposed to be pretty.

### Ice Cream

* [King of Pops](http://kingofpops.com/): We had every opportunity to try these
  popsicles, as there are many carts around popular areas.
* [Charm School](http://www.charmschoolrva.com/): I most regretted missing
  this; we tried to on Monday, when they are closed.

### Drinks

* [The Rogue Gentlemen](http://www.theroguegentlemen.com/)

### Food

* [Shagbark](http://www.shagbarkrva.com/)
* [Lemaire](http://www.lemairerestaurant.com/): Fancy fancy, which didn't
  jive well with the theme of the rest of our trip.
* [Maple & Pine](https://www.destinationhotels.com/maple-and-pine-restaurant)
  (the restaurant in the lobby of the Quirk Hotel).
* [Heritage](http://www.heritagerva.com/)
* [Metzger](http://www.metzgerbarandbutchery.com/)
* [The Roosevelt](http://rooseveltrva.com/)
* [L'Opossum](http://www.lopossum.com/)
* [Sub Rosa Bakery](http://www.subrosabakery.com/): mmm baked goods.
