---
title: "Trip Report: Boulder, Colorado (2018)"
date: 2019-01-13
taxonomies:
  tag: travel

resources:
- name: ":counter.jpg"
  src: "**.jpg"
---

{{< img "3.jpg" "James Canyon" >}}

Since I was out West already to [to attend a friend's
wedding](https://ericgar.com/2019/01/13/sonoma-2018/) and had a bunch of
vacation days to spare, I had really wanted to tack on a camping trip. Then I
procrastinated on getting permits and finding an appropriate solo route. So I
fell back to my old haunt of cycling in Boulder, Colorado.

And I'm glad I did. I fell in love with the place even more than I had been
already.

At the end of my stay, I can say that I've never been more relaxed. I want to
move here someday.

## Monday

**[Greenride](https://greenrideco.com/)**: Getting from the Denver airport to
Boulder is kind of a PITA: it's kind of far away, so Uber/Lyft drivers don't
like going there, and regular taxi fares are ridiculous. Enter Greenride:
shared vans and buses to Boulder every hour, with drop-off available wherever
in town (for a small additional change and likely with a transfer). I was
super-impressed by their punctuality, professionalism, and organization. I will
definitely use this service again.

**[Basecamp Boulder](https://basecampboulder.com/)**: I stayed in the
Boulderado the last time I was here alone, and it was fine, but I wanted
something new (and while I'd love to stay at the St. Julien, I didn't want to
spend $600 a night). I had heard of this place because it has camping-themed
rooms and a climbing wall, so why not? Plus, I knew I'd be using the BCycle
bike share network, and Basecamp was near a station and one of the main
downtown multi-use paths.

It turned out to not be bad, but it is basically a glorified motel. The food
options are not great. But, the front-of-house staff were super-friendly and
helpful, and I really enjoyed sitting in the chill outside with the firepit
going. Another plus was they have a coin-operated washer and dryer and will
even give you some free detergent.

Next time I might just try one of the big chain hotels at the end of Pearl
Street, like the Hyatt Place.

{{< img "1.jpg" "Hawaiian pizza with jalepenos, along with a Melvin 2x4 DIPA" >}}

**[Backcountry Pizza](https://backcountrypizzaandtaphouse.info/)**: I arrived
at Basecamp kind of late on a Monday, so food and beer options were limited.
Luckily, my Greenride driver recommended Backcountry for being only a couple of
blocks away and having good pizza and beer, which is definitely in my
wheelhouse. Then, the frontdesk staffer at Basecamp made exactly the same
recommendation. Done and done, no need to convince me more. As luck would have
it, one of my favorite breweries in the world, Melvin, had a bar takeover that
night, complete with a [muted samurai movie
playing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zatoichi) on the TVs and rap music
playing over it, just like at their brewpub [Thai Me Up in Jackson,
Wyoming](https://ericgar.com/2016/09/27/jackson-2016-trip-report/). I had the
Mt. Hawaiian pizza, which I'm ashamed to say is the first time I've had
jalapenos on a pineapple and ham pizza, but it won't be the last. Definitely
recommended if you're in the area; the tap list is really good.

## Tuesday

{{< img "2.jpg" "Delicious breakfast at The Buff" >}}

**[The Buff](https://www.buffrestaurant.com/)**: This is a huge claim: this may
have been the best breakfast I've ever had. For starters, the menu was huge and
had everything you could possibly want for breakfast. Then, there was outdoor
seating (albeit on a noisy intersection), The "Matterhorn skillet" is
recommended.

**[University Cycles](https://ubikes.com/)**: I rent a bike from UCycles
everytime I come here and everytime I come here I'm greeted by great, friendly
service at a shop that has every accessory I could possibly want. I'm sort of
interested in renting from Full Cycle (which has a really great shop, too),
Vecchio's (which specializes in titanium bikes), or grabbing a Canyon from
Rapha, but I just really love the University Cycles shop and staff.

**[Ride:
Super-Flagstaff->Nederland->Sugarloaf](https://www.strava.com/activities/1850917612)**:
This was a really great ride that I still dream about weeks later. Here are
some things I'd want to know before this route:



*   The Flagstaff climb is a local legend for a reason. The descent on the
    other side is pretty great.
*   The Gross Dam Road descent is loose, coarse gravel, with some intense
    washboarding at times, making it a little harrowing on a mere road bike.
    Take your time and you'll be fine.
*   The climb after the reservoir is great, though!
*   There's not a lot of water until near Nederland: I stopped at the top of
    Flagstaff and rang the doorbell at the firehouse, asking a the fireman on
    duty for a refill.
*   The Peak-to-Peak (P2P) is great as a means to get between destinations: it
    has wide shoulders and not a ton of traffic.
*   The descent on Sugarloaf is disappointingly short. 
*   The 1.5 miles of Boulder Canyon Dr. is sketchy due to the amount of
    high-speed traffic. I missed a pretty bad car collision by a couple of
    seconds and almost ran into the debris field. This was easily the suckiest
    part of the ride.

**[BRU](https://bruboulder.com/)**: I wanted to get some food and some beer
(namely, the second and third components of my vacation) and I liked this
place's tagline: "bringing together the art of food & beer". Indeed, both were
pretty good, though nothing I had was particularly stand-out. A neat feature of
the bar is that they have a Nintendo 64, a TV, and a bunch of games available.

**[Heifer and Hen](http://www.heiferandthehen.com/)**: I stopped at this
organic ice cream shop next door to BRU to pick up an ice cream sandwich to
bring to the next brewery. I got a chocolate chip cajeta and it was delicious.

{{< img "4.jpg" "Mmm beer and ice cream sandwich" >}}

**[Wild Woods](http://www.wildwoodsbrewery.com/)**: This is a really great
brewery. I highly recommend bringing some food or getting delivery to the bar
and getting the Purple Mountain Majesties IPA, which has a great color and
nose, and the Ponderosa Porter, which was deep and complex.

## Wednesday

{{< img "5.jpg" "This is almost always a good sign." >}}

**[Ride: "Connie's Ride" + part of
NCAR](https://www.strava.com/activities/1852789594)**: Having not ridden much
this year, I decided to be less ambitious after a fairly big ride the previous
day. I remembered [a video from Rapha featuring Connie
Carpenter](https://www.rapha.cc/us/en_US/stories/rapha-rides-boulder) that
highlighted some nice unpaved roads along with a route. This was a nice ride
that showed me a couple areas of Boulder I hadn't seen and made me fall in love
with Boulder even more. I then decided to check out the National Center for
Atmospheric Research, which is on top of a mesa, with a low-traffic, gentle
climb right in town.

{{< img "6.jpg" "The Post Brewing." >}}

**[The Post Brewing](https://www.postbrewing.com/)**: This brewery is right
Pearl Street and has the slogan "Hot Chicken Loves Cold Beer", and I love all
of those things. The windows were open on a gorgeous day; I sat at the bar and,
true to the place, ordered an IPA and a "Nashville hot" fried chicken sandwich.
Tasty, but not the best. I'd come back if I needed a beer or food and I was in
the area.

**[Pearl Street](https://www.boulderdowntown.com/)**: I had to do the touristy
thing and meander down the pedestrian-friendly (mostly car-free) Pearl Street
Mall. As a visitor, I like that the area isn't as big box store-like as
Denver's pedestrian mall: while there are many chains, there are a bunch of
independent places too, and there are a lot of stores that are high quality. I
stopped in at Rapha to check out their sales and sat outside of Boxcar Coffee
Roasters with a delicious espresso.

I went to dinner at a friend's newly acquired house nearby, with their newly
acquired puppy, so nothing more to report.

## Thursday

**[Breakfast at The
Cup](https://www.boulderdowntown.com/go/the-cup-espresso-cafe)**: This is my
go-to early morning breakfast place in Boulder: it opens early and is centrally
located downtown. While the bagel sandwiches just aren't as good as in New
York, the cappuccino certainly is.

{{< img "7.jpg" "More James Canyon" >}}

**[Ride: Old Stage -> James ->
Lefthand](https://www.strava.com/activities/1855057136)**: This was a repeat of
a ride I made the previous year and really enjoyed. The James Canyon ascent is
probably my favorite climb ever: the scenery is gorgeous, the road is pretty
fun, and you end up on a gravel road on the top of the world. Rocky Mountain
weather is notorious for changing quickly. Despite starting the climb in
beautiful, sunny, 80°F weather, I heard the rumbles of thunder in the distance,
and by the time I got to the top, it dropped down to 45°F and hailing. Luckily,
the hail turned into sleet then into drizzle and then disappeared within 15
minutes, leaving a gorgeous day. This could have turned out much worse, but that it didn't has made an excellent memory.

I made the requisite stops at:

*   **[Jamestown Mercantile](http://www.jamestownmercantile.com)**: I enjoyed
    my breakfast burrito here the prior year, but I showed up too late for food
    (I wasn't that hungry anyway, as this is only midway up the climb): [their
    hours are interesting](http://www.jamestownmercantile.com/contacts). Paying
    homage to Phil Gaimon, I snagged a cookie and chatted with two other very
    nice cyclists with whom I hope to ride some day.
*   **[Utica Street
    Market](https://www.facebook.com/pages/Utica-Street-Market/516205298528093)**:
    Get an espresso and sit outside in the sun.

{{< img "8.jpg" "At the top of Bald Mountain" >}}

This is definitely my favorite ride so far. The climb is interesting and varied
and the descent is fast. It avoids any bad roads whatsoever (e.g. Boulder
Canyon Drive) and has good espresso along the route.

**[Asher Brewing](http://asherbrewing.com/):** I had two goals for my post-ride
calorie consumption and last night in Boudler: visit Asher for the first time
and visit Avery for the umpteenth. Asher is an all-organic brewery and their
IPAs are excellent. They, too, have an ample amount of outdoor seating.

**[Avery Brewery](https://www.averybrewing.com/)**: This is one of my favorite
places in the world. Lots of outdoor seating, lots of good comfort food, lots
of happy dogs, and most importantly, lots of really well executed,
one-of-a-kind brews. I ended up having my last beer in a nice rocking chair on
a gantry above their production floor. The meatloaf was excellent. 

## Friday

{{< img "9.jpg" "Eldorado Canyon" >}}

**[Ride: Eldorado Canyon](https://www.strava.com/activities/1856408765)**: I
didn't have a ton of time before having to leave for my flight, but I wanted to
get one last ride in before returning the bike. I chose to visit Eldorado
Springs, since it is a popular cycling destination in a direction from Boulder
that I hadn't ever travelled. The road eventually turns into the entrance to
Eldorado Canyon State Park and the scenery is lovely. I didn't actually enter
the park (despite the entrance fee for bikes being only $4) out of concern for
time, but I'd love to come back.

**[Breakfast at Snooze AM](https://snoozeeatery.com/)**: Anyone who knows me
knows that I love a good breakfast burrito. This popular breakfast-oriented
diner delivers. But, the pancakes also looked good; lo and behold, one can
order pancakes as a side! Done and Done. I had to wait a bit just to sit at the
counter; coming early is recommended. I'm definitely coming back here.
