---
title: "Trip Report: Charleston, South Carolina(2018)"
date: 2019-01-28
taxonomies:
  tag: travel

resources:
- name: ":counter.jpg"
  src: "**.jpg"
---

Yuko and I realized that we had a free domestic airfare certificate that would
expire soon, so we cooked up a short jaunt to Charleston, South Carolina, where
we hear the eating is good.

We definitely were not disappointed. We found a couple of new favorite
restaurants and beers. And, we had to be selective about where to go, meaning
there is more to be discovered on a future trip.

## Friday

**[King Charles Inn](https://www.kingcharlesinn.com/)**: The staff here is very
friendly. That's about the only praise I can give this hotel. Our room was
small and in need of a makeover, taking into consideration the exorbitant cost.
The walls were paper thin and our room overlooked an intersection of two major
roads. Between the lady on the phone in the next room and the early-morning
garbage truck, it felt like we were in New York, but worse. Skip this place.
Hotels in Charleston seem to be absurdly expensive; if I were to come back, I'd
just stay at the Hyatt Place, which is moderately less expensive but still
within walking distance of the interesting bits of downtown.

**[Pounce Cat Cafe and Wine Bar](https://www.pouncecatcafe.com/)**: I admit
that we didn't actually go into this place, but we should have. Everytime
we walked by  which was often before opening or after closing  we'd stop to
stare in the window at the cutie pie cats running the joint. We made such
good use of their window that we ended up donating money to them, as we
didn't actually spend any money in the shop.

**[Charleston Night
Market](https://www.thecharlestoncitymarket.com/main/night-market-explore)**:
We walked through here on our way to dinner and picked up a candle and a cat
toy from some local artisans. It's worth strolling through.

**[SNOB](https://snobcharleston.com/)**: This place is legendary and helped
make Charleson become the food scene that it is. Make a reservation, but try to
sit by the seats overlooking the kitchen. When you sit down, immediately order
a Barn Raiser cocktail and definitely get the shrimp 'n grits. Everything else
we had was excellent, including the sour cream apple pie. This is a must visit.
We still talk about that shrimp 'n grits months later.

## Saturday

**[City Lights Coffee](https://www.facebook.com/citylightscoffee/)**: This is a
perfectly fine neighborhood coffee shop with some fine people working behind
the counter. I'd not recommending paying a special visit here, but it is nice
and delivers on its promise of supplying coffee.

**[Charleston Farmers Market](http://www.charlestonfarmersmarket.com/)**: I
would, however, strongly recommend coming straight to the farmer's market.
There was a bunch of tasty-looking things here: as can be expected, there was a
section dedicated to produce and another to prepared foods. 

{{< img "1.jpg" "Rodney Scott BBQ" >}}

**[Rodney Scott BBQ](https://rodneyscottsbbq.com/)**: Rodney Scott won the
James Beard Award for Southeast earlier in the year, so of course we had to pay
a visit to his shop. Though I'm no connoisseur of barbeque, this food was
tasty. We sat outside which was nice, aside from the flies. Pro tip: get a cup
for sweet tea, but make it ¼ sweet tea and ¾ unsweetened for a delightful but
  not overpowering beverage. I got the sandwich + one side combo, but the right
  order is for a plate and two sides.

{{< img "2.jpg" "Revelry Brewing" >}}

**[Revelry Brewing](https://www.revelrybrewingco.com/)**: I really liked this
place and would come back any time. I was drawn to Revelry because they have an
open-air roof deck (oh and also they brew beer). Alas, even in October, the
South Carolina sun is _intense_, so we went back downstairs and sat at the bar
under shade. Everything I had was delicious and they have the best merchandise
of any brewery I've ever been to.

**[Edmund's Oast Brewing Co.](http://edmundsoast.com/brewing-co/)**: I found a
new favorite brewery here. Edmund's Oast is one of the most innovative
breweries I've ever been to. They produce everything from sours to stouts and
knocks each style out of the park. Every one of their beers I had was layered
in wave after wave of complexity. My friend, who apparently knows my tastes
very well, had suggested to get the peanut butter and jelly beer, though I was
disappointed to find it was not on the menu. Nevertheless, we found other beer
to drink and stayed for way more rounds than we had expected. This was made
easy by sitting outside and watching all of the dogs on a gorgeous day.

**[Peninsula Grill](https://www.peninsulagrill.com/)**: This restaurant shows
up in all of the Charleston food guides and was recommended by the front desk
staffer at the hotel, notably for their coconut cake. It was a little strange
how formal this place felt, even emphasized by the chargers on the table from
the 1996 Bocuse d'Or. Don't get me wrong: I agree that participating in the
1996 Bocuse d'Or is an admirable thing, but maybe it's okay to retire those
chargers 20+ years later. The coconut cake is good and the wine list is large,
but I would recommend making reservations elsewhere and picking up a slice of
cake to have in your hotel room.

## Sunday

**[Kudu](http://kuducoffeeandcraftbeer.com/)**: I really liked this coffee
shop. It's just off the main drag on a side street and they have a lovely
outdoor courtyard that I could just stay in and drink espresso all day. Then,
once the evening hit, they often turn it into a live music venue, so I could
hang out and drink beer there. I might never leave.

{{< img "3.jpg" "Butcher and Bee" >}}

**[Butcher and Bee](https://butcherandbee.com/)**: We had passed by here on our
way to Edmund's Oast the prior day and decided to drop in for brunch. They
pride themselves in serving mostly local goods. Their design aesthetic is well
thought through and the space is really inviting. I would come back. The
breakfast sandwich I ordered was delicious, aside from the fact that bagels
outside of New York and Montreal are terrible.

{{< img "4.jpg" "Edmund's Oast Exchange" >}}

**[Edmund's Oast Exchange](http://edmundsoast.com/exchange/)**: This is the
retail beer and wine shop attached to Edmund's Oast (the restaurant, not the
above brewery). We were walking back downtown and I wanted to check it out: I'm
glad we did. We chatted with a staffer who was about to conduct a class on the
wines of Rhone. Then, we went down stairs _and found the peanut butter and
jelly beer_! My life was complete in that moment. And in the next moment, I was
enjoying a fusion of two of my favorite foods ever. It was not the first peanut
butter and jelly beer I've ever had, but man was it good. I wish I had some
right now.

**[South Carolina Aquarium](https://scaquarium.org/)**: I love aquariums,
partially because it reminds me of when I used to go diving and how foreign I
was in a sea of creatures that were totally at home. This aquarium was great
and did a really good job of being interactive and explanatory.

**Historic houses**: We took a cab to the southern tip of the peninsula where a
lot of antebellum-era houses still stand. This wasn't that interesting to me.
They are pretty houses but are pretty divorced from how the rest of the people
in this city are living.

**[Second Sunday on King
Street](https://www.facebook.com/2ndSundayonKingSt/)**: Every second Sunday of
the month, the city shuts down the downtown stretch of King Street from cars
and allow pedestrians and street vendors to take over. It was nice to stroll
back to our hotel along this route, stopping in stores and seeing people enjoy
life without the threat of traffic around them. We also hit up...

{{< img "5.jpg" "King of Pops" >}}

**[King of Pops](https://kingofpops.com/)**: ...this popsicle cart along the
way. Like any popsicle cart these days, they had a lot of innovative flavors. I
had the strawberry jalapeno, which I would recommend for anyone who likes a
little spice in their sweet. The guy who sold us his wares was dressed in a
banana costume so you know he means business.

**[Husk](http://huskrestaurant.com/)**: This restaurant is the top recommended
one in Charleston. I made reservations here months in advance to make sure we
were able to partake. Sadly, we weren't that impressed. Service was perfectly
fine and all of the food was as well, but nothing was outstanding. We were in
and out within an hour and a half.

## Monday

**[The Rise](https://www.yelp.com/biz/the-rise-coffee-bar-charleston)**: I got
suckered into this coffee shop in a hotel because of their lavender latte,
which sounded like a concept from the outstanding coffee menu at [Band of
Bohemia](http://www.bandofbohemia.com/) in Chicago. Sadly, this was just a
lavender-infused sugar water that can be added to any drink. I got a regular
coffee with such an infusion and it was both calming and energizing at the same
time. We sat outside, though there aren't many seats in- or outdoors.

**[Hominy Grill](http://hominygrill.com/)**: Best brunch ever. I really love
brunch even though I recognize it will probably being about my death faster.
Hominy Grill really knows southern comfort and practically shoves it in your
face and down your throat. (Yes, it is that tangible, with every bite.) I had
the "Charleston Nasty Biscuit," which is their take on a chicken sandwich on a
biscuit and would highly recommend it.

**[Fort Sumter National Monument](https://www.nps.gov/fosu/index.htm)**: I
really like American history and love the movie
[Glory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glory_(1989_film)). (It's sort of still
amazing to me that the first time I saw that movie was to get extra credit in
my 8th grade social studies class!) We also had an afternoon to kill before our
flight. Fort Sumter was the symbol of of the South in the Civil War, as that
was where the war actually started and it was held until the Confederacy
collapsed. Getting to the fort requires taking a 40 minute ferry ride to an
island in the middle of Charleston Harbor. The tour starts with a National Park
Ranger interpretation and then is self-guided, until the boat leaves again
about an hour later. I really enjoyed sitting in the fort trying to imagine
what it must have been like to be a soldier stationed there during a siege. 

{{< img "6.jpg" "Peace Pie" >}}

**[Peace Pie](https://peacepieworld.com/)**: "The ice cream sandwich with a
layer of pie filling." Sold. We stopped by this place on the way back to our
hotel to pick up out bags to go to the airport. The ice cream sandwiches were
tasty and are a great concept, though they weren't my favorite.

**[Holy City Brewing](https://holycitybrewing.com/)**: We still had time to
kill, so we picked up our bags and got
a cab to this brewery near the airport. They have a huge tap list that rotates
constantly (they have _188_ beers listed on their website) and a bunch of
medals to go along with them. It was a perfect idea to stop by on the way to
the airport.

Charleston is home to one of the [assembly plants for the Boeing 787
Dreamliner](https://www.boeing.com/company/about-bca/south-carolina-production-facility.page).
I really wanted to visit the factory, but alas, I came to find out they don't
offer tours and it's not open to the public. I had a consolation prize in
seeing the [Boeing 747
Dreamlifter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boeing_Dreamlifter), which is a
highly modified (and funny looking) 747 used to transport the massive,
one-piece composite sections that make up the 787.
