---
title: "Trip Report: Sonoma Valley, California"
date: 2019-01-13
taxonomies:
  tag: travel

resources:
- name: ":counter.jpg"
  src: "**.jpg"
---

Yuko and I were invited to a friend's wedding in Sonoma, California. We spent a
long weekend in the area, eating and drinking our way though as usual.

{{< img "2.jpg" "SingleThread Farms" >}}

## Friday

**[Yang Sing](http://yang-sing.com/)**: I suggested we go to Marlowe, a
California-chic restaurant. Yuko wanted dim-sum. We left New York City to come
to San Francisco for dim-sum? Who am I to complain: I love dim-sum too.
Delicious and worth the wait. Get the soup dumplings, the potstickers, a pot of
tea, some shumai, and anything else that looks good. The guy at the table next
to us asked me if Yuko and I were on a date. Sort of: I consider everyday a
date with my wife.

**Avoiding the 101**: The traditional way to get from SF to Sonoma is to take
the 101 all the way. There was some sort of car racing event that caused lots
of traffic. Google Maps took us on a route through the hills to the west, which
prevented Yuko from getting a quality car nap due to the undulating terrain,
but which was way more fun and scenic than the 101. I couldn't really tell you
where we drove, but it sure was squiggly.

**[Flamingo Hotel](https://www.flamingoresort.com/)**: Pass. We stayed here due
to a wedding room block. Terrible bathroom, uninspired room, noisy with lots of
bros attending other weddings.

{{< img "1.jpg" "SingleThread Farms rooftop beer" >}}

**[SingleThread Farm](https://www.singlethreadfarms.com/)**: With no tables
available for the night we actually intended to stay in Healdsburg and despite
staying 17 miles away, I decided we had to go to this restaurant with two
Michelin stars. I'm glad we did: we started on the gorgeous roof deck
overlooking Healdsburg by having a house beer made in collaboration with
Russian River and then were seated to a long list of delicious treats. The rest
of the meal was simply spectacular and the service was wonderful. Book well in
advance; reservations open on the 1st of every month at 9am PST for the
following month. Required visitation; I hope to come back.

**[Russian River Brewing](https://russianriverbrewing.com/)**: Knowing that
this would be my one and only available night in Santa Rosa, I got dropped off
at Russian River to make a pilgrimage and to have a quick beer (which
all-too-quickly became _two_ quick beers) and to pick up some goodies to take
home. _Pliny the Elder_ has been consistently rated one of the best beers in
the world for many years, though I prefer _Blind Pig_. The new brewery that
opens later this year looks awesome.


## Saturday

**Breakfast at the Flamingo Hotel**: The breakfast burrito was actually pretty
good. Our server has been working at the hotel for 40 years and is still going
strong.

**[Patroni Vineyards](http://www.petronivineyards.com/)**: One of our close
friends attending the same wedding had the foresight to arrange a reservation
at this vineyard that is well off the beaten path. They only give private tours
and tastings, unlike the horse trough-like tasting rooms of most wineries in
the area. Our host was great and was accompanied by his super-cute great dane,
Gracie, who became the star and focus of our visit. Recommended; book in
advance. As usual, prepare to get tipsy and order hundreds of dollars more wine
that you expected to. (My caring wife later opened the best bottle we purchased
[while I was in Tel Aviv](https://ericgar.com/2019/01/12/tel-aviv-2018/)!)

**[El Dorado Kitchen](https://www.eldoradosonoma.com/kitchen/)**: Our amazing
friend also made reservations for calories after drinking. This place was
lovely, with a good beer list. Make an early-ish reservation and ask to sit
outside. All of the food looked and tasted delicious, though it's hard for me
to trust anyone who serves a lemon with fish tacos (which were still tasty).

**[Sweet Scoops](http://www.sweetscoopsicecream.com/)**: Our friend hit the
trifecta by suggesting that we go to the nearest scoop shop after lunch. The
flavors are interesting and everyone seemed happy. I appreciate that they have
a "tiny" size. We sat in the park across the street and almost got taken out by
some falling, gigantic tree nuts.

**[Valley of the Moon at Madrone
Estate](http://www.valleyofthemoonwinery.com/)**: The wedding ceremony and
reception was here. It was a pretty nice setup: pre-ceremony refreshments took
place on the patio and the olive tree grove, the ceremony had a gorgeous
backdrop of the vineyard (though the sun was setting behind us, literally
cooking the poor girls' bare shoulders in front of our eyes), cocktail hour was
on the path to the tasting room, and the tasting room served as the dance hall.
The food was tasty; get the chicken and waffles. 


## Sunday

**[Harmon Guest House](https://harmonguesthouse.com/)**: After staying at the
neighboring sister hotel a couple of years ago for a super-romantic cycling
trip with one of my bromances, I booked a room for a night at this brand new
place. We arrived at around 1pm, knowing check-in wasn't until 3pm (which was
claimed to be "guaranteed"). "We'll text you when your room is ready," they
said. At 3:00pm: "Come back in 30 minutes," they said. 3:45pm rolls around and
we head back to the front desk to find that our room was finally ready.  \ \
The room was actually quite well-appointed. Contemporary-but-comfortable, the
only downsides were the noise from the nearby highway, the music playing
outside (At the pool? From the deck of a neighboring room? Not sure), and the
body hair scattered along the walls and in the bathroom from the last guest.

{{< img "3.jpg" "Oat milk cappuccino at Flying Goat Coffee" >}}

**[Flying Goat Coffee](http://flyinggoatcoffee.com/)**: Yuko got a delicious
nitro cold brew and I got a delicious oat milk cappuccino, and we sat outside.
Highly recommended. I wanted to buy all of their t-shirts, too.

**[Healdsburg Running Co.](http://www.healdsburgrunningcompany.com/)**: A great
shop. Another place where I wanted to buy all of their t-shirts. Visit their
website for some great local route recommendations.

**[Healdsburg Bar and Grill](http://www.healdsburgbarandgrill.com/)**: Needing
to kill some time and, noticing the Russian River sticker in their window, we
saddled up at a table outside for some chipotle fries (surprisingly spicy!) and
a Pliny the Elder. Recommended. 

**[Noble Folk](https://thenoblefolk.com/)**: The menu at this pie and ice cream
shop looked amazing with very unique flavors. We had a mixed reaction: the pie
was fine and the ice cream was good, but neither were as amazing as their
Instagram pictures.

{{< img "4.jpg" "Spoke Folk Cyclery's cat" >}}

**[Spoke Folk Cyclery](http://www.spokefolk.com/)**: This is a well-appointed
bike shop and worth a visit. While we were there the mechanic was changing a
tube for a customer, but instead of just doing the work, he took the time to
explain the procedure in detail so that the customer could do it themselves; I
appreciate that. They have a super-cute shop cat who followed us around. I'd
rent bikes here next time I'm in town just to pet the cat again.

**[Barndiva](http://www.barndiva.com/)**: Some of their food is
photographically gorgeous. It was all tasty; the salmon was done particularly
well. The beer list needs work. Recommended, but maybe not as a first choice in
town.


## Monday

**[Breakfast at Spoonbar](https://spoonbar.com/)**: Breakfast came included and
we needed to head to the airport relatively early. They serve up eggs and
pancakes from the kitchen and a spread of pastries and bagels is on the
counter.


## Other Recommendations

This trip snuck up on us and we didn't do a whole lot of research, plus we
mostly got to all the places in Healdsburg we wanted. The one recommendation we
overheard that looks good is:

**[Duke's Spirited Cocktails](https://drinkatdukes.com/)**: Apparently, this
place is owned and operated by some folks who are really passionate about
cocktails. Plus, this is where all the other bartenders and waitstaff seem to
hang out after their shifts, so it must be good.

